This is an index of related pages that share a common conceptual attribute. Unlike disambiguation pages, it can be linked to internally if the article text is relevant to all items in the index.However, if an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.
Lakes are bodies of liquids that are limited in size. Lake-like formations can be generated by a variety of biomes, features and terrain features, that are often mistakenly called "lakes", despite that there is no single cause for their generation.
The following biomes, features or terrain features are commonly referred to as "lakes":

Contents

1 Biomes
2 Features
3 Terrain features
4 Removed features

Biomes
A small ocean biome surrounded by land on all sides.
A wide section of a river biome.



			A small ocean biome resembling a lake.



			A wide river biome resembling a lake.


Features
Lava lakes, small pools of lava that generate in the Overworld above Y=0.
Deltas, one-block-deep sheets of constrained lava found in basalt deltas biomes in the Nether.
Clay pools, shallow water pools surrounded by clay found in lush caves biomes.



			A lava lake.



			Deltas in a basalt deltas biome.



			The "Lush Caves" seed template, featuring clay pools with an axolotl.


Terrain features
A large lake, where the terrain generates below the local water level in a non-aquatic biome.
An aquifer, which fills caves with water at different levels, creating underground lakes.
A lava aquifer, which fills certain caves with lava below Y=0, creating underground lava lakes.
Lava sea, which fills everywhere below Y=32 with lava in the Nether.



			A large lake in a flower forest biome.



			A water aquifer on the surface, resembling a lake.



			A water aquifer and a lava aquifer.



			The lava sea in the Nether.


Removed features
Water lake, a small body of water that abundantly generated at any altitude in the Overworld.
Desert lakes, a variant of the desert biome where large lakes are generated more frequently.



			An old underground water lake.



			The removed desert lakes biome, featuring many large lakes.