This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Example of a massive Plains/Windswept hills/Forest Biome on a map.
Large Biomes is a world type that generates Overworld worlds at a higher scale than in normal worlds. It does not affect Nether biomes at all.

Contents

1 Generation
2 Videos
3 History
4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery
7 See also
8 References
9 Navigation

Generation

Large Biomes worlds generates Overworld biomes with much more expansive and larger climate zones compared to default worlds at approximately 4 times the scale. Even with using the same seed, the climate zones do not match that of default worlds due to multi-noise parameters used to generate worlds since 1.18. Large biomes does not change the size of mountains or rivers compared to default worlds. As such, there are often larger clusters of mountain biomes that generate within each biome.
The player can use a map to gain a visual representation of the scale of the biomes in their world.
Large Biomes offer a play experience different from regular sized worlds. If a player starts in an undesirable area, such as a desert, it can be difficult to survive. The generation system also leads to rare biomes being far more difficult to come by, but with more valuable resources when they are eventually found.

Videos





History
Java Edition1.3.112w19a
Large Biomes introduced.

Large Biomes worlds were generated as Default worlds, but had 16 times as much area (multiplied by 4 along the X and Z axis), causing the biomes of the Overworld to be expansive. A Default and Large Biome world sharing the same seed were geographically the same, overall. Rivers were not larger than they were in a default world.1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
Large biomes worlds can no longer be created.21w39a
Added large biomes for custom worlds.Pre-release 1
Large biomes worlds can be created again.

Because of the multi-noise parameters used to generate biomes as of 1.18, Large Biomes terrain is no longer geographically consistent with the Default generation using the same seed.
Issues
Issues relating to "Large Biomes" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
The scale of biomes can be altered through the firstOctave parameters in biome_source of Custom worlds. Decreasing each firstOctave by 2, roughly makes biomes have a similar size to Large Biomes. This affects the temperature, vegetation, continentalness, and erosion parameters. Conversely, increasing all 4 parameters by more than 2 creates a more rugged terrain.
The Legacy Console Edition added a biome scale slider in TU54 with a "large biome size" option. This differs from large biomes on Java Edition by a scale factor of 4× smaller biomes on Legacy Console. This is due to Legacy Console Edition's default generated worlds using small biomes with 4× smaller biomes compared to default worlds on Java and Bedrock, and "medium sized biomes" 2× smaller than Java/Bedrock.
Gallery



			Comparison between large and normal biomes before 1.18. The red dot is the origin of the world. Both worlds have the same seed.



			A sample of a world with large biomes.


See also
AMPLIFIED - similar to large biomes, but world generation is instead expanded vertically.
References

 MC-172228 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

Navigation