Not to be confused with Scoreboard.



This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.





This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


The traveling leaderboard showcases how much distance players travel by walking, falling, using minecarts, and boats.
Leaderboards are a Legacy Console Edition exclusive where one can keep track of their progress with their friends or other players on the same console type as theirs.
There are six types of leaderboards:​[more information needed]

Traveling Leaderboard, which tracks the distance players have traveled, calculated in meters. It also tracks the distance traveled using minecarts and boats, and the highest distance players have fallen.[verify]
Kills Leaderboard, which tracks how many entities players have killed. The entities tracked are mostly monsters, such as zombies, skeletons, spiders, spider jockey, zombie pigmen, and slimes.
Mining Blocks Leaderboard, which tracks how many blocks players have mined. The blocks tracked are dirt, cobblestone, sand, stone, gravel, clay, and obsidian.
Farming Leaderboard, which tracks how many farm items players have collected. The items tracked are eggs, wheat, mushrooms, sugar cane, milk buckets, and pumpkins.
Glide Leaderboard, which can be filtered with score and time attack. ​[more information needed]
Leaderboards' players can be filtered by "Overall" (which show global player leaderboard), "Friends", and "My Score".​[more information needed]

Gallery



			The traveling leaderboard tracks how much distance players have traveled.



			The kills leaderboard tracks how many entities (specifically monsters) players have killed.



			The mining blocks leaderboard tracks how many blocks players have mined.



			The farming leaderboard tracks how many farm items players have collected.



			The leaderboard for glide score attack in the Yeti map.



			The leaderboard for glide time attack in the Yeti map.



			Leaderboards on the Xbox 360 Edition as of March 31, 2013.


History



This section is missing information about: version history 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch1.66.0035.0 ‎ ‎‎‎
Added leaderboards[verify]TU51CU41 1.44
Added leaderboards for the Glide mini game.
Navigation