This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



TU69 tutorial world

Map maker(s)

4J Studios

Release date

September 11, 2018

Download link

World download (all platforms)

{
    "title": "TU69 tutorial world",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to 4J Studios article, displayed as 4J Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 11, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.theminecraftarchitect.com/tutorial-worlds/tu69 World download (all platforms)]",
            "label": "Download link"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Legacy Console Edition tutorial TU69.png"
    ]
}

The TU69 tutorial world is the eighth and final distinct tutorial for the Legacy Console Edition of the game, released on all platforms that received the Update Aquatic.

Contents

1 Areas

1.1 Spawn
1.2 Tutorial areas

1.2.1 Farming (crops)
1.2.2 Trading
1.2.3 Repairing
1.2.4 Farming (animals)

2 Music discs
3 History
4 Gallery
5 Navigation

Areas
Spawn
The area the player spawns in
When creating a new tutorial world, the player will always spawn in this enclosed area. They are given tutorial pop-ups that can be skipped or progressed through. There is a partially built house, made of oak planks. At the back, there is a tunnel with stairs that appears to be caved in. Towards the front, there is a broken bridge that, when either rebuilt or traversed around, leads to a room with a bridge suspended over water, with creeper faces made of dark prismarine on either side. The bridge leads to a stairway that brings the player out into the main tutorial area, greeted by a giant stone Minecraft logo above head.

Tutorial areas
Farming (crops)
Just past the big Minecraft logo, there is a farm that contains every crop. Inside this fenced farm, there is a chest that contains the following:

Wheat Seeds ×5
Melon Seeds ×5
Pumpkin Seeds ×5
Beetroot Seeds ×5
Carrot ×10
Potato ×10
Stone Hoe
Bone Meal ×10
The farm area to the right of the chest has some untilled grass, and farmland with nothing planted on it, for use in the tutorial.

Trading
Directly after the farm there are two more fenced areas, with the one on the right being for trading. There are 3 houses that somewhat resemble the village houses of the time. Inside the biggest house there are two villagers behind a counter, and there are two more who can roam freely within the fenced area. There is a butcher, an armorer, a cleric, and a librarian. There is a chest containing 32 paper and 11 emeralds.

Repairing
Across from the trading pen is another fenced area containing a blacksmith-style building and an anvil. There are two villagers, a weapon smith and a tool smith. There is a chest containing the following:

Wooden Pickaxe with low durability
Golden Shovel with even lower durability
Iron Shovel with almost full durability
Iron Ingot
Gold Ingot
Stone Sword
Enchanted Book with Fire Aspect II
Bottle o' Enchanting ×10
Name Tag ×5
Lava Bucket
Farming (animals)
To the left of the farming and repairing areas is a stable containing pens of chickens, cows, sheep, pigs, rabbits, wolves, and ocelots. In the middle there is a chest containing the following:

Wheat ×10
Seeds ×10
Carrot ×10
Raw Beef ×5
Raw Cod ×10
Bone ×10
These items are to be used to breed and tame the penned animals.

Music discs
Main article: Legacy Console Edition tutorial/Locations § TU69
Most of the Legacy Console Edition tutorial worlds included music discs hidden throughout the world, and the TU69 world is one of them. There are 12 discs total; with those discs being 11, 13, blocks, cat, chirp, far, mall, mellohi, stal, strad, wait, and ward.

History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Added the TU69 tutorial world, replacing the previous world.
TU731.821.831.82Patch 42

Removed barrier blocks from the tutorial world.

Gallery



			The map of the world, fully explored



			The Minecraft logo featured in the world



			The Steve and Alex statues at the exit of the tutorial area



			An aerial view of the spawn and surrounding areas



			The tutorial world featured in the menu panorama



			Ditto but at night


Navigation