This is a list of all of the features exclusive to the Legacy Console Edition.

Contents

1 General
2 World generation
3 Options
4 Blocks and items
5 Mobs & entities
6 Crafting

6.1 Layout
6.2 Notes

7 Creative inventory

7.1 Layout
7.2 Differences

8 Other
9 History
10 References
11 Navigation

General
The Mansion in the TU7–TU11 Tutorial World on the Xbox 360.
Tutorial
DLC
Mash-up packs
Has more music tracks.
Texture packs
Legacy Console Edition texture packs
They were replaced by resource packs from Java Edition in 1.6.1.
Achievements/Trophies
More achievements/trophies.
Bonus Chest
Labeled as "Bonus Chest" instead of just "Chest" in the UI. Breaking and then placing the chest back down removes this unique label.
Skins
14 extra default skins.
Certain Console Edition-exclusive skin packs.
Leaderboards
Mini Games
Tumble mini-game
Battle mini-game
Glide mini-game
Descriptions
Gives the player detailed instructions about what an item/block/entity does.
Sleeping
New sleeping animation.
World generation
World sizes
Options for classic (864×864), small (1024×1024), medium (3072×3072), and large (5120×5120) world sizes. Large, medium, and small are only available on the Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition. On the Nintendo Switch Edition, there are only classic, small, and medium world sizes.
Water moat occupies the outer 2 chunks to smoothly transition to the edge of the world.
Overwrite world edges option when expanding a world from a smaller size to a larger size, resetting the outer 2 chunks in the smaller world, removes the water moat at the edge of the world.
Classic world size generates more villages than large world sizes.
Biome Scale
Small, medium, and large option. The small option is the default due to limited world size, so one world can have more biomes.
Biome generation is roughly based on Java Edition 64 bit generation seeds. Large biome size is equivalent to biome size 4 from Java Edition Old Customized worlds, Medium is rough approximation on biome size 3, and small biome size roughly approximates to biome size 2. This is due to biome scaling taking place before hill biomes, edge biomes, and beach biome are applied to the map, unlike Java Edition Old Customized worlds where the scaling occurs after.
Mushroom biomes generate in different locations compared to Java Edition.
Since the Exploration Update, temples and structures attempt to spawn more frequently, due to limited world sizes, especially with woodland mansions.
There is a "Find Balanced Seed" option, selected by default, which makes the game randomly select seeds that have a better variety of biomes.
The Nether
Noise generation is loosely based on Java Edition Nether noise generation.
Has limited size, at 288×288, and is slightly larger with a larger world size. On Large worlds, the Nether is up to 640×640.
The Nether-Overworld portal ratio is larger depending on world size: 1:3 in Classic and Small; 1:6 in Medium; and 1:8, like other versions of Minecraft, in Large.
Nether wart spawns randomly wherever soul sand is generated in the Nether.
The edge of this dimension is made of bedrock.
The Nether is hollow, with a flat ground, when using a superflat world.
The End
Up to one End gateway can generate on Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, PlayStation Vita Edition, and Wii U Edition, whereas up to four End gateways can generate on Xbox One Edition, PlayStation 4 Edition, and Nintendo Switch Edition.
The coordinates they generate are as follows, with the first set of coordinates being that of the first End gateway, and the remaining 3 gateways using the 3 remaining coordinates, but not in any particular order:
x:65 y:75 z:0
Leads to the southern island and is guaranteed to generate an End city.
x:-65 y:75 z:0
Leads to the eastern island.
x:0 y:75 z:65
Leads to the northern island.
x:0 y:75 z:-65
Leads to the western island.
Each End gateway portal leads to one outer island, which is as big as the main island. On the Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, PlayStation Vita Edition, and Wii U Edition, the only generated outer island always generates an End city with an End ship.
The End gateways in the outer islands generate at a random position in a random corner and always 10 blocks above the ground just like in Java Edition.
The size does not change with regard to the world's world size. Even on the classic world size, the islands are so far apart that they are all on different maps.
The spawn End island generates at 0,0, up to 96 blocks form the origin. Outer islands generate 2048 blocks from the origin in cardinal directions.
Each island is surrounded by invisible walls, making it impossible to go between them without the use of End gateways.
Only a 192 by 192 block area (12 by 12 chunks generate, 6 chunks from the center) for each island.
Only the spawn End island's noise generation loosely follows Java Edition End noise generation. The outer End islands always generate the End island; rather than other End biomes (small End islands).
The obsidian platform is located at X=60, Y=49, Z=60; unlike that of Java or Bedrock.
End spikes are generated differently:
Generates 8 pillars instead of 10.
Centers of the pillars have a horizontal euclidean distance of 40 blocks to the exit portal.
Are sorted by size with an ascending order clockwise.
Start generating at Y-Level 1 instead of 0.
The smallest pillar generates until Y-Level 73. Each next pillar going clockwise is 3 blocks taller.
The 2 tallest pillars have iron bars.
The exit portal always generates at Y-Level 63.
The exit portal always generates with a small island made out of End stone around it even with world seeds that otherwise do not generate a central island.
Superflat Interface
An interface for creating superflat worlds. While a similar interface exists on older versions of Java Edition, in Legacy Console Edition, it is much more versatile, allowing you to change what generates, how much it generates, and more.
A maximum of 128 layers, including at least one layer of bedrock always at the bottom of the world that cannot be changed or removed.
The Legacy Console Edition is the only edition of the game to have a block selection menu and biome selection menu for custom superflats, the layout of which are shown below:
There are a total of 250 unique different blocks in the custom superflat block selection menu as of PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95. Not all blocks can be used for custom superflat, such as slabs or stairs.
There are a total of 21 different biomes in the biome selection menu for custom superflats. Not all biomes can be used, such as the birch forest, which is notably missing from the custom superflat biome selection menu.

 Custom superflat block selection menu:

Air
Water
Lava
Stone
Grass Block
Dirt
Cobblestone
Smooth Stone
Sand
Sandstone
Smooth Sandstone
Chiseled Sandstone
Cut Sandstone
Red Sand
Red Sandstone
Smooth Red Sandstone
Chiseled Red Sandstone
Cut Red Sandstone
Granite
Polished Granite
Andesite
Polished Andesite
Diorite
Polished Diorite
Block of Coal
Dried Kelp Block
Block of Gold
Block of Iron
Block of Lapis Lazuli
Block of Diamond
Block of Emerald
Block of Quartz
Coal Ore
Lapis Lazuli Ore
Diamond Ore
Redstone Ore
Iron Ore
Gold Ore
Emerald Ore
Nether Quartz Ore
Nether Wart Block
Bedrock
Planks, all types
Log, all types
Stripped Log, all types
Wood, all types
Stripped Wood, all types
Gravel
Bricks
Mossy Cobblestone
Obsidian
Clay
Ice
Packed Ice
Blue Ice
Snow Block
Netherrack
Soul Sand
Glowstone
Magma Block
Sea Lantern
Prismarine
Prismarine Bricks
Dark Prismarine
Slime Block
Stone Bricks
Mossy Stone Bricks
Cracked Stone Bricks
Chiseled Stone Bricks
Silverfish Blocks, all types
Mycelium
Coarse Dirt
Podzol
Nether Bricks
Red Nether Bricks
End Stone
End Stone Bricks
Chiseled Quartz Block
Quartz Pillar
Smooth Quartz Block
Purpur Block
Purpur Pillar
Terracotta
Stained Terracotta, all colors
Melon
Pumpkin
Carved Pumpkin
Jack o'Lantern
Snow
Glass
Bookshelf
Hay Bale
Bone Block
Concrete, all colors
Concrete Powder, all colors
Glazed Terracotta, all colors
Wool, all colors
Carpet, all colors
Stained Glass, all colors
Mushroom Block, (red, brown, stem)
Coral Blocks, all types
Dead Coral Blocks, all types
TNT
Redstone Lamp
Crafting Table

 Custom superflat biome selection menu:

Plains
Savanna
Mesa
Desert
Forest
Roofed Forest
Jungle
Swampland
Extreme Hills
Ocean
Warm Ocean
Lukewarm Ocean
Cold Ocean
Frozen Ocean
Ice Flats
Cold Taiga
Taiga
Redwood Taiga
Mushroom Island
Nether
End
Options
Game options menu on Legacy Console Edition.
Command-like options
All /gamerule command options except for reducedDebugInfo, randomTickSpeed and some others with an interface.
Game options
Online Game
Invite Only
Allow friends of friends
Player vs Player
Host Privileges
Daylight Cycle
Weather Cycle
Keep Inventory
Mob Spawning
Mob Griefing
Mob Loot
Tile Drops
Natural Regeneration
Biome Scale Slider
Find Balanced Seed
Autosave on/off
HUD Options
Interface Opacity
Interface Sensitivity
Display HUD
Display Hand
In-Game Tooltips
In-Game Gamertags
Splitscreen Gamertags
HUD Size
HUD Size (Splitscreen)
Other options
Cave Sounds
Minecart Sounds
Manual crafting
Reset Nether
Reset The End
Hints
Death messages
Render distance
The render distance is set to 10 chunks on the Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, and the Wii U Edition whereas on the Xbox One Edition and the PlayStation 4 Edition it is set to 18 chunks.
Blocks and items
Coordinates displayed on maps on Legacy Console Edition.
Banners
Have an automatic crafting option.
Dead bushes
Always drop 1 stick instead of 0-2.
Enchanted golden apple
Can be crafted with 1 apple and 8 blocks of gold.
Java Edition had this recipe until 1.9.
Bedrock Edition had this recipe until 1.2.10.
Block of Emerald
Use the texture from 18w50a.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Golden Armor
Use the texture from 18w43a.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Leather Armor
Use the texture from Java Edition 1.13.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Firework rockets
Five pre-crafted firework rockets are available in Creative Mode. The types are as follows:
Duration 1, small ball, light blue, twinkle
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, light blue dye, and glowstone dust; then use the firework star, one paper, and one gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, creeper shaped, green
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, green dye, and a mob head; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, burst, red, fade to orange
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, red dye, and a feather; then add orange dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 3, burst, magenta, fade to blue, twinkle
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, magenta dye, a feather and glowstone dust; then add blue dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and three gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, star shaped, yellow, fade to orange, trail
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, yellow dye, a gold nugget, and a diamond; then add orange dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Firework stars are not directly obtainable in the Creative inventory.
Grass blocks
Render 3D in the side when not snowy.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Jack o'Lantern
Named "Jack-O-Lantern".
Jungle sapling
Named "Jungle Tree Sapling".
Kelp
Has a different hitbox.
Lava
Cannot be placed within a 33x33 area around the world spawn point (similar to the default size of spawn protection in Java Edition) and attempting to do so shows a warning.
Can't Place Here!Placing lava close to the level spawn point is not allowed due to the possibility of instant death for spawning players.
Maps
When upgrading the world in the PlayStation 4 Edition, it will turn into a Locator map, but cannot be stacked with others.
The player always begins a new world with an empty map; it will be a map of 1024×1024 area size (1:8 scale, zoom step 3).
Maps will display the coordinates that the player is located at.
Coordinates displayed are that of the player's eye level, not the player's feet.
Cannot be zoomed in.
Are snapped to a grid different from Java Edition and Bedrock Edition.
Specifically, maps center on 0,0, so the map at spawn would cover up to 512 blocks from the origin. Large world maps cover from 512 to 1536 blocks, and then 1536 to 2560 blocks. The center of these maps are at 1024 or 2048.
Melons
Can drop 10 melon slices when mined with fortune 3.
Music disc
After the music disc "cat" finishes playing, the soundtrack "Dog" starts playing.
Playing a music disc in a jukebox stops background music for the duration of the music disc.
Nether wart
Nether wart generates randomly on any soul sand in the Nether, rather than exclusively in Nether fortresses.
Sand and red sand
Can be smelted in a blast furnace.
Short grass
Named "Tall Grass".
Shrubs
Obtainable in the Creative inventory.
Spawn eggs
Cannot spawn monsters on Peaceful difficulty. The player gets an error message and the spawn egg is not consumed.
You can't spawn enemies in Peaceful mode.
Stonecutter
Shows all possible blocks that can be crafted, instead of just craftable blocks. This is the case even if the "Classic Crafting" option is off.
Tall grass
Named "Double Tall Grass".
Mobs & entities
Blazes
Blazes drop 0-2 glowstone dust when killed.
Minecarts
Twice the speed as in Java Edition.
Phantoms
Only have 10 health instead of 20.
Skeletons
Use the old sounds for taking damage and dying.
Vindicators
Deal less damage.
Easy: 6 instead of 7
Normal: 10 instead of 13
Hard: 15 instead of 19
Wandering traders
Are able to sell lilacs, rose bushes, sunflowers, peonies and red sandstone.
Witches
 Use the texture from 18w50a.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Withers
Perform their dash attack much more often than its Bedrock Edition counterpart.
Wither skeletons
Spawn in all parts of the Nether rather than only in Nether fortresses.
Zombie Pigmen
Entity model is taller than the player, rather than the same height.
Crafting
Legacy Console Edition's crafting table interface
2×2 crafting interface
The game has a crafting system with the following categories. The categories of blocks and items in the crafting menu differ significantly from the Creative menu, and various blocks and items are grouped differently. Stonecutters have a separate interface, although it functions very similar to the crafting menu.
The crafting system in Legacy Console Edition could be changed to use the system from the Java Edition by checking the "Classic Crafting" option under "User Interface" in the options menu.
By default, Legacy Console Edition used a simplified crafting system. It did not require the player to place items in the correct place in the crafting interface, but instead displayed the ingredients required to craft the selected item and allows the player to craft that item as long as the player has the required crafting ingredients.
The PlayStation Vita and Wii U editions did not have the ability to craft using touch input.

Layout



This section is missing information about: whether the following items are in, and where in the crafting menu they are located, as of PS4 version 1.95: (stripped wood; dyed wool; colored shulker boxes; cloned explorer map; written book). Which crafting and banner crafting patterns show in the inventory crafting menu; and which don't. Add missing items from the dyes tab. Double check the fireworks and dyes tab; if there are missing items, or an update changed the tabs or added more items. Are cut sandstone/cut red sandstone slabs cuttable like Java or not like Bedrock? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Crafting

Structures

Planks, all types Wood, all types
Stick Ladder* Scaffolding*
Block of Quartz Chiseled Quartz Block Quartz Pillar Stone Bricks Chiseled Stone Bricks Mossy Stone Bricks Mossy Cobblestone Red Nether Bricks Diorite Granite Andesite Polished Diorite Polished Granite Polished Andesite Purpur Pillar End Stone Bricks
Sandstone Red Sandstone Cut Sandstone Cut Red Sandstone Chiseled Sandstone Chiseled Red Sandstone Nether Bricks Coarse Dirt Prismarine Prismarine Bricks* Dark Prismarine* Snow Block Snow* Clay Bricks Bone Block*
Crafting Table Furnace* Fletching Table* Smithing Table* Cartography Table* Campfire* Enchanting Table* Anvil* Loom Grindstone* Brewing Stand* Lectern* Stonecutter* Blast Furnace* Smoker*
Chest* Trapped Chest Ender Chest* Barrel* Shulker Box*
Bed, all colors*
Wooden Fence, all types* Nether Brick Fence Wall, all types* Iron Bars*
Fence Gate, all types*
Wooden Door, all types* Iron Door* Wooden Trapdoor, all types* Iron Trapdoor
Wooden Stairs, all types* Stairs, all types*
Slab, all types* Wooden Slab, all types*

Tools and Weapons

Pickaxe, all types*
Shovel, all types*
Axe, all types*
Hoe, all types*
Shears TNT* Flint and Steel
Fishing Rod* Carrot on a Stick
Bow* Crossbow* Arrow* Tipped Arrow, all craftable types*
Sword, all types*
Shield*
Bucket* Bowl* Glass Bottle* Cauldron* Composter*
Torch Lantern* Glowstone Sea Lantern* Fire Charge Jack o'Lantern
Clock* Eye of Ender Lead* Compass* Empty Map*

Food

Golden Apple* Enchanted Golden Apple* Glistering Melon* Golden Carrot*
Mushroom Stew Rabbit Stew* Beetroot Soup*
Cookie*
Melon*
Melon Seeds Pumpkin Seeds
Pumpkin Pie
Fermented Spider Eye
Blaze Powder
Magma Cream
Cake*
Sugar
Bread*

Armor*

Helmet*
Chestplate*
Leggings*
Boots*
Leather Horse Armor*

Mechanisms

Redstone Lamp* Note Block*
Beacon* Conduit*
Lever Tripwire Hook*
Redstone Torch
Redstone Repeater* Redstone Comparator*
Daylight Detector*
End Crystal*
Hopper* Dispenser* Dropper*
 Wooden Button, all types
Wooden Pressure Plate, all types Stone Pressure Plate Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate Light Weighted Pressure Plate
Observer*
Piston* Sticky Piston

Transport

Rail* Powered Rail* Activator Rail* Detector Rail*
Minecart*
Minecart with Chest
Minecart with Furnace
Minecart with TNT
Minecart with Hopper
Boat, all types*

Decorations

Glass Pane* Stained Glass, all colors* Stained Glass Pane, all colors*
Purpur Block Magma Block Nether Wart Block* Dried Kelp Block* Packed Ice* Blue Ice* Block of Gold* Block of Iron* Block of Diamond* Block of Emerald* Block of Lapis Lazuli* Block of Redstone* Block of Coal* Hay Bale* Slime Block*
Stained Terracotta, all colors*
Concrete Powder, all colors*
Yellow Dye Red Dye Bone Meal Pink Dye Orange Dye Lime Dye Gray Dye Light Gray Dye Light Blue Dye Cyan Dye Purple Dye Magenta Dye Black Dye Blue Dye White Dye Brown Dye Lapis Lazuli
Carpet, all colors
White Wool
Flower Pot* Jukebox* Leather
Armor Stand* Painting* Item Frame* Sign, all types*
End Rod
Paper* Book Book and Quill Bookshelf* Banner Pattern, all types
Dried Kelp Gold Ingot Iron Ingot Diamond Emerald Redstone Dust Coal Wheat Slimeball String Gold Nugget Iron Nugget

Banners

Create, Copy, Select Banner

Stripes*

Saltire, all colors*
Paly, all colors*
Cross, all colors*
Base, all colors*
Pale, all colors*
Bend Sinister, all colors*
Bend, all colors*
Pale Dexter, all colors*
Fess, all colors*
Pale Sinister, all colors*
Chief, all colors*

Halves*

Per Bend Sinister, all colors*
Per Bend, all colors*
Per Bend Inverted, all colors*
Per Bend Sinister Inverted, all colors*
Per Fess, all colors*
Per Fess Inverted, all colors*
Per Pale, all colors*
Per Pale Inverted, all colors*

Shapes*

Roundel, all colors*
Lozenge, all colors*
Base Dexter Canton, all colors*
Base Sinister Canton, all colors*
Chief Dexter Canton, all colors*
Chief Sinister Canton, all colors*
Chevron, all colors*
Inverted Chevron, all colors*
Base Indented, all colors*
Chief Indented, all colors*

Borders, Backgrounds and Gradients

Bordure, all colors*
Field Masoned, all colors
Bordure Indented, all colors
Gradient, all colors*
Base Gradient, all colors*

Symbols

Creeper Charge, all colors
Flower Charge, all colors
Thing, all colors
Skull Charge, all colors

Fireworks

Color, Shape, Effect: - all colors, all shapes, all effects
Select Star, Add Fade: - all colors
Add Power, Select Star: - Gunpowder​[more information needed]

Dyes

 Armor, Color: - all leather armor equipment, all colors
Dye: - Beds​[more information needed], all colors

Stonecutter block:

Stonecutter

Slab, all types except wood
Stairs, all types except wood
Wall, all types
End Stone Bricks Polished Andesite Polished Diorite Polished Granite Purpur Pillar Chiseled Quartz Block Quartz Pillar Stone Bricks Chiseled Stone Bricks
Cut Red Sandstone Chiseled Red Sandstone Cut Sandstone Chiseled Sandstone
Notes
Crafting entries with an asterisk (*) do not appear outside the crafting table.
The armor tab does not show in the inventory crafting menu, only in the crafting table. All other crafting tabs show even in the inventory crafting menu. Only three of the six banner tabs show in the inventory banner crafting menu, including the select banner tab.
As with the Creative inventory, there is no search tab, unlike the recipe book on Java and Bedrock. Players must instead browse each individual tab to find the item in question, or toggle to show craftable items only.
When using the loom for banner crafting, only the banner crafting interface with the banner specific navigation tabs are available. In the first tab, only "Select Banner" is available.
Furnaces, blast furnaces, and smokers do not have a predefined menu selection of blocks, unlike the recipe book on other editions such as Java.
Colored materials are ordered by color data values, unlike colored items in the Creative inventory. This applies to all tabs (crafting, banners, dyes, fireworks), in both the crafting table and loom. The order of dyes in the crafting dyes in the decorations tab is different.
Creative inventory
Creative mode item selection screen in Legacy Console Edition
The Creative inventory in Legacy Console Edition was the same as Java Edition, albeit with slightly different tabs and its own set of items.
On PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95, there are a total of 1,043 unique items in the Creative inventory.

Layout

Building Blocks

Stone
Grass Block
Grass Path
Dirt
Cobblestone
Smooth Stone
Sand
Sandstone
Smooth Sandstone
Chiseled Sandstone
Cut Sandstone
Red Sand
Red Sandstone
Smooth Red Sandstone
Chiseled Red Sandstone
Cut Red Sandstone
Granite
Polished Granite
Andesite
Polished Andesite
Diorite
Polished Diorite
Block of Coal
Dried Kelp Block
Block of Gold
Block of Iron
Block of Lapis Lazuli
Block of Diamond
Block of Emerald
Block of Quartz
Coal Ore
Lapis Lazuli Ore
Diamond Ore
Redstone Ore
Iron Ore
Gold Ore
Emerald Ore
Nether Quartz Ore
Nether Wart Block
Bedrock
Planks, all types
Log, all types
Stripped Log, all types
Wood, all types
Stripped Wood, all types
Gravel
Bricks
Mossy Cobblestone
Obsidian
Clay
Ice
Packed Ice
Blue Ice
Snow Block
Netherrack
Soul Sand
Glowstone
Magma Block
Sea Lantern
Prismarine
Prismarine Bricks
Dark Prismarine
Slime Block
Scaffolding
Wooden Fence, all types
Nether Brick Fence
Iron Bars
Stone Bricks
Mossy Stone Bricks
Cracked Stone Bricks
Chiseled Stone Bricks
Silverfish Blocks, all types
Mycelium
Coarse Dirt
Podzol
Nether Bricks
Red Nether Bricks
End Stone
End Stone Bricks
Chiseled Quartz Block
Quartz Pillar
Smooth Quartz Block
Purpur Block
Purpur Pillar
Wooden Trapdoor, all types
Iron Trapdoor
Fence Gate, all types
Iron Door
Wooden Door, all types
Wooden Slab, all types
Slab, all types
Wooden Stairs, all types
Stairs, all types
Terracotta
Stained Terracotta, all colors

Decorations

Skeleton Skull
Wither Skeleton Skull
Zombie Head
Player Head
Creeper Head
Dragon Head
Sponge
Wet Sponge
Melon
Pumpkin
Carved Pumpkin
Jack o'Lantern
Bamboo
Sapling, all types
Leaves, all types
Vines
Lily Pad
Torch
Lantern
Shrub
Grass
Fern
Dead Bush
Flower Pot
Dandelion
Poppy
Blue Orchid
Allium
Azure Bluet
Tulips, all types
Oxeye Daisy
Cornflower
Lily of the Valley
Sunflower
Lilac
Tall Grass
Large Fern
Rose Bush
Peony
Brown Mushroom/Red Mushroom
Cactus
Snow
Cobweb
Glass Pane
Glass
Painting
Item Frame
Sign, all types
Bookshelf
Hay Bale
Bone Block
Chorus Flower
Chorus Plant
End Rod
Wall, all types
Concrete, all colors
Concrete Powder, all colors
Glazed Terracotta, all colors
Banner Pattern, all types
Banner, all colors
Illager Banner
Wool, all colors
Carpet, all colors
Stained Glass, all colors
Stained Glass Pane, all colors
Mushroom Block, all types
Sea Pickle
Kelp
Seagrass
Coral, all types
Coral Fans, all types
Dead Coral Fans, all types
Coral Blocks, all types
Dead Coral Blocks, all types

Redstone & Transportation

Rail
Powered Rail
Detector Rail
Activator Rail
Ladder
Minecart
Minecart with Chest
Minecart with Furnace
Minecart with Hopper
Minecart with TNT
Elytra
Saddle
Boat, all types
Dispenser
Note Block
Piston
Sticky Piston
TNT
Lever
Stone Button
Wooden Button, all types
Stone Pressure Plate
Wooden Pressure Plate, all types
Redstone Dust
Block of Redstone
Redstone Torch
Redstone Repeater
Redstone Lamp
Tripwire Hook
Daylight Detector
Dropper
Hopper
Redstone Comparator
Trapped Chest
Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate
Light Weighted Pressure Plate
Observer

Materials

Coal
Charcoal
Diamond
Emerald
Iron Ingot
Gold Ingot
Nether Quartz
Brick
Nether Brick
Stick
Bowl
Bone
String
Feather
Flint
Leather
Rabbit Hide
Gunpowder
Clay Ball
Glowstone Dust
Prismarine Crystals
Prismarine Shard
Nautilus Shell
Heart of the Sea
Wheat Seeds
Melon Seeds
Pumpkin Seeds
Beetroot Seeds
Wheat
Sugar Cane
Egg
Sugar
Slimeball
Blaze Rod
Gold Nugget
Iron Nugget
Shulker Shell
Nether Wart
Popped Chorus Fruit
Scute
Ink Sac
Lapis Lazuli
Cocoa Beans
Bone Meal
Dye, all colors

Food

Apple
Golden Apple
Enchanted Golden Apple
Melon Slice
Mushroom Stew
Rabbit Stew
Beetroot Soup
Bread
Cake
Cookie
Cooked Cod
Raw Cod
Cooked Salmon
Raw Salmon
Tropical Fish
Pufferfish
Cooked Porkchop
Raw Porkchop
Steak
Raw Beef
Cooked Chicken
Raw Chicken
Cooked Mutton
Raw Mutton
Cooked Rabbit
Raw Rabbit
Rotten Flesh
Spider Eye
Potato
Baked Potato
Poisonous Potato
Carrot
Golden Carrot
Pumpkin Pie
Beetroot
Chorus Fruit
Dried Kelp
Sweet Berries

Tools, Weapons & Armor

Compass
Leather Armor
Sword, all types
Wooden tools
Empty Map
Chainmail Armor
Stone tools
Bow
Iron Armor
Iron tools
Arrow
Golden Armor
Golden tools
Flint and Steel
Diamond Armor
Diamond tools
Shield
Fire Charge
Clock
Shears
Fishing Rod
Carrot on a Stick
Lead
Totem of Undying
Horse Armor, all types
Armor Stand
Turtle Shell
Trident
Crossbow
Tipped Arrow, all types with effects
Enchanted Book, all types, max level only

Brewing

Bottle o' Enchanting
Dragon's Breath
Ghast Tear
Fermented Spider Eye
Blaze Powder
Magma Cream
Glistering Melon
Rabbit's Foot
Phantom Membrane
Glass Bottle
Water Bottle, all types
Awkward Potion
Potion, all types with effects
Splash Potion, all types with effects
Lingering Potion, all types with effects

Miscellaneous

Chest
Ender Chest
Crafting Table
Furnace
Brewing Stand
Enchanting Table
Beacon
Conduit
Barrel
Cartography Table
Loom
Lectern
Blast Furnace
Smoker
Campfire
Composter
Grindstone
Stonecutter
Fletching Table
Smithing Table
Bell
Shulker Box
Dyed Shulker Box, all colors
Bed, all colors
End Portal Frame
End Crystal
Jukebox
Anvil
Bucket
Lava Bucket
Water Bucket
Milk Bucket
Bucket of Cod
Bucket of Salmon
Bucket of Pufferfish
Bucket of Tropical Fish
Cauldron
Snowball
Paper
Book
Book and Quill
Ender Pearl
Eye of Ender
Name Tag
Nether Star
Monster Spawner
Turtle Egg
Spawn Egg, all types
Music Disc, all types
Firework Rocket, five types
Differences
There is no search tab, with all of the Creative inventory's items in a single tab, on Legacy Console. Players must instead browse each individual tab to find the item in question.
Scrolling up and down in the Creative inventory and custom superflat scrolls one entire page at a time (five rows of items) on Legacy Console; instead of scrolling one row at a time like all other editions of the game.
Both Luck effect and Decay effect potions and tipped arrows are available on Legacy Console.
All Potion and Tipped Arrow types are arranged by base variants, followed by extended variants, and enhanced variants. They aren't arranged by regular, splash, and lingering potions like on Java or Bedrock.
Colored blocks and items are arranged in a different order from Java and Bedrock. They don't use a rainbow order like all colored blocks and items on Java (almost all on Bedrock).
Banners on Legacy Console are arranged differently from all other colored blocks and items within.
Enchanted books are ordered partially like that of Java, and those added after the World of Color update, partially like that of Bedrock, with other minor differences to the order of enchanted books.
Unlike later versions of Java or Bedrock Edition, spawn eggs are not sorted alphabetically, nor are they sorted with most passive mobs before most hostile ones. Instead; most hostile mob spawn eggs are listed before most passive mob spawn eggs.
Slabs, stairs, and walls share the same order between Legacy Console and Bedrock Edition with the following exception: Stone brick and mossy stone brick stairs and slabs are found between mossy cobblestone and wooden variants on Legacy Console, rather than between wooden and sandstone variants like on Bedrock.
Exclusive Items in the Creative inventory
Exclusive to Legacy Console Edition only, and cannot be found on any other platform:
Shrub
Firework Rocket, five types
Also available on New Nintendo 3DS, and historically on Bedrock, prior to Bedrock Edition 1.12.0:
Mushroom Block Pores
Also available on Java, but not Bedrock:
Luck effect Tipped Arrow, Potion, Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Minecart with Furnace
Historically exclusive to Java and Legacy Console only, but not Bedrock, prior to Bedrock Edition 1.12.0:
Grass Path
Curse of Binding
Curse of Vanishing
Also available on Bedrock, but not Java:
Decay effect Tipped Arrow, Potion, Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Historically exclusive to Bedrock and Legacy Console only, but not Java, prior to Java Edition 1.15:
Monster Spawner
Illager Banner
Field Masoned Banner Pattern
Bordure Indented Banner Pattern

Unobtainable items in the Creative inventory
The following items cannot be obtained directly in the Creative inventory on Legacy Console only. On other Minecraft editions such as Java or Bedrock, these items are in the Creative inventory.
Firework Star
Farmland
Chipped Anvil
Damaged Anvil
Dragon Egg
Tipped Arrow, four types with no effects
Mundane and Thick Potion, Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Awkward Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Enchanted Book, those that are not the highest level.
The following items on Legacy Console are not obtainable in the base game. On other Minecraft editions, these items are available through commands or are in the Creative inventory.
Spectral Arrow
Petrified Oak Slab
Barrier
Command Blocks, all types
Minecart with Command Block
Unlike Java Edition and Bedrock Edition, Update Aquatic and Village & Pillage did not add the following items on Legacy Console, and are as such unavailable in the game:
Slowness IV effect Tipped Arrow, Potion, Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Dead Coral, all types
Wither Rose
Suspicious Stew, all types
Globe Banner Pattern
Trader Llama Spawn Egg
Fox Spawn Egg
Sweeping Edge

Other
Villager trading has a different GUI compared to other Minecraft editions.
3D blocks in the inventory have the same lighting on the X and Z axis facing sides, unlike Java and Bedrock. This is the case on more recent versions on some platforms.​[more information needed]
In the editions with the Update Aquatic, players can enter swimming mode if any part of their character is touching water, not just their head.
In all Legacy Console Editions there is a debug mode used by 4J Studios. Currently it can only be accessed in Xbox 360 Edition TU4 or below.
Rotating horizontally while gliding with an elytra tilts the camera. This can be disabled under "game options".
Sneaking while gliding with an elytra and not holding anything in the mainhand rotates the arm by 180° in third person.
Items that are renamed using an anvil have an orange name instead of an italic name.
Worn heads, carved pumpkins, and banners flash red when the entity takes damage.
Block breaking speed is not reduced when not touching the ground.
Sprinting is not cancelled when sprinting against a block.
Players can open inventory UIs while being inside a Nether portal.
An exclusive "Gary Banner!" splash exists.[when?]
Entering or leaving the End shows a message for other players. In the editions with the Update Aquatic, the player entering or leaving the End sees it too.
In the editions with the Update Aquatic, players swim up faster in water, allowing them to swim up in dragging bubble columns.
On the Xbox One Edition, you can add worlds to a ban list and when you join a world that's on the ban list, you will get a dialog box telling you if a world you joined is on the ban list.



			Villager trading GUI



			Debug options



			Debug menu


History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added a simplified crafting interface.

Added Splitscreen.

Added Tutorial.

The player will always spawn in the world with a map.

Doubled minecart speed.TU2
Added a co-ordinate display to the in-game map.
Added a warning message when attempting to place lava near the world spawn point.TU5
Seven tabs in Creative Inventory instead of ten like Java Edition. A full detailed history can be found here.
Superflat Nether.
Added the "wait" music disc with the name "where are we now".
Shrubs are available in the Creative inventory.TU6
Made cake stackable to 64.TU7
Extended Creative inventory to eight tabs from seven with the addition of brewing.

Ender pearls can be thrown in Creative.
TU8
Blazes now drop 0-2 glowstone dust when killed.TU9
Added the End, with all exclusive features in it.
Entering or leaving the End shows a message for other players, saying that that player entered or left the End.
Nether wart now generates randomly wherever soul sand is generated in the Nether.
Added an option to reset the Nether.TU11
A chat message is now displayed when attempting to spawn enemies using a spawn egg on Peaceful difficulty.
A chat message is now displayed when trying to spawn a mob for which the spawn limit has been reached.
A chat message is now displayed when trying to breed animals for which the spawn limit has been reached.
A chat message is now displayed when the maximum amount of item frame or paintings has been reached.TU12
Added Texture Packs and Mash-up packs.
Minecarts are now slower.TU13
Minecarts are now faster again.TU19CU71.121.121.12
Added Donkey and mule spawn eggs.

Firework rockets in creative inventory.
Skeletons now have a new death sound. Previously they used the same sound as when taking damage. Unlike in Java Edition, they continue using the old sound for taking damage.TU20CU81.131.131.13
Wither skeletons now rarely spawn anywhere in the Nether.TU24CU11.201.001.00
Added 30 achievements, with 20 already in game, making 50 total vs. Java Edition's 34. (Xbox 360 and PS3)TU25CU141.171.171.17
Added custom superflat interface with block selection screen.
Glass panes and stained glass panes are now rendered as 3D models in the inventory.
Added new "Cave Sounds" option to Audio Settings.
Added new "Classic Crafting" option to User Interface settings.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Due to the addition of a lot of new biomes on limited size worlds, biome scale on all new Legacy Console Edition worlds have been downscaled 4x (16x area), in order to fit more biomes on limited sized worlds, compared to Java Edition. Prior to this update, biome generation seeds previously matched Java Edition at a scale factor of 1 to 1.

Added all logs and End portal frames to the custom superflat block selection menu.TU34CU221.251.251.25Patch 4
Added new "Minecart Sounds" option to Audio Settings.
TU36CU251.281.281.28Patch 7
Added Battle mini-game.
Equipping armor with the quick equip functionality now plays a sound, which is unused in Java Edition.TU41CU301.331.331.33Patch 11
Added Tumble mini-game.TU43CU331.361.361.36Patch 13
Added automatic banner crafting interface.

Grass paths in creative inventory.

Frosted ice is obtainable with Silk Touch.

New sleeping animation.TU46
Skeletons and wither skeletons now use the old sound for and dying.CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Removed End portal frames from the custom superflat block selection menu.

Added automatic firework crafting interface.

Shifted location of the End platform due to the downscaling of the central End island.
Turning the camera horizontally while gliding with an elytra tilts the camera. An option to disable this has also been added to the game options.
Sneaking while gliding with an elytra and not holding an item in the mainhand rotates the arm by 180° in third person.
Equipping armor on makes the same sound as in Java Edition.
Added an option to reset the End.TU48CU381.411.411.41Patch 17
Dead bushes now drop 1 stick when broken.TU49CU391.421.421.42Patch 18
Glass panes and stained glass panes are now rendered as items again in the inventory.TU51CU411.441.441.44Patch 201.0.3
Added Glide mini-game.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Added Biome Scale slider and Find Balanced Seed option.

Added separate dye crafting interface.

Added woodland mansions, and made them and ocean monuments generate more frequently.
Vindicators deal less damage than on Java and Bedrock editions.TU63CU531.671.671.67Patch 321.0.13
The "where are we now" music disc has been renamed to "wait".
A chat message is now displayed when the maximum number of End crystals has been reached.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Phantoms only have 10 health.
Wither skeletons now use the same sounds as in Java Edition.
Now the player entering or leaving the End gets the chat message too, instead of only other players.
The speed at which players swim up in water has been increased.  1.83
The side of non-snowy grass blocks is now 3d.1.91
Sand and red sand can now be smelted in a blast furnace.
References

 MCCE-4165 — resolved as "Works As Intended".

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpufpKw0HBc

 [1]

Navigation