This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Legacy Skin Pack

Skins

22

Price

Free

Release date

September 12, 2017

{
    "title": "Legacy Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "22",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 12, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
The Legacy Skin Pack is a skin pack on Bedrock Edition consisting of 22 skins that were previously part of skin packs on Legacy Console Edition. It includes all skins from the Default Skin Pack except Athlete Steve and Athlete Alex. At some point, this skin pack was delisted.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History
4 Issues
5 Gallery
6 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Steve

Steve with a noticeably absent beard, cyan T-shirt, and purple pants.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Tennis Steve

A blond version of Steve wearing tennis gear.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Tuxedo Steve

Steve wearing a black tuxedo.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Scottish Steve

A red haired version of Steve, in a tuxedo and kilt, insinuating a common stereotype of Scottish culture.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.
This skin is in reference to 4J Studios, the game studio that developed the Legacy Console Editions of Minecraft, being based in Scotland.

Prisoner Steve

An albino version of Steve, in a prisoner jumpsuit.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Cyclist Steve

Steve in scarlet cycling gear.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Boxer Steve

A blonde version of Steve, with visible muscles, red boxing gloves, and trunks. This is an updated version of the one in Legacy Console, having fixed the top and bottom textures of the arms being swapped.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Alex

Alex wearing a green tunic, brown pants, and gray boots.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Tennis Alex

A dark skinned version of Alex wearing tennis gear.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Tuxedo Alex

Contrary to the name, Alex is not wearing a tuxedo, but a black dress.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Swedish Alex

Alex dressed as a stereotypical, feminine Swedish person.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.
This skin is in reference to Mojang Studios, the developers of Minecraft, being based in Sweden.

Prisoner Alex

A brunette version of Alex, in a prisoner jumpsuit.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Cyclist Alex

Alex in mauve cycling gear.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Boxer Alex

A dark skinned version of Alex, wearing a white sleeveless shirt and blue boxing gloves.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Dev Alex

Alex wearing a shirt of a former logo for Mojang Studios.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Dev Steve

Steve wearing a shirt of a former logo for Mojang Studios.

This skin was originally part of the Default Skin Pack.

Crocodile

A humanoid, crocodile-like creature.

This skin was originally part of Battle & Beasts.

Dust An Elysian Tail Fidget

A skin themed after the character Fidget from the action role-playing game Dust: An Elysian Tail.

This skin was originally part of the Summer of Arcade Skin Pack and Skin Pack 4.

Dust An Elysian Tail Party Fidget

A skin depicting Fidget from Dust: An Elysian Tail wearing a party hat.

This skin was originally part of the 2nd Birthday Skin Pack.

Minecraft Squid

A humanoid version of a squid mob, as it appeared prior to the Texture Update.

This skin was originally part of Skin Pack 1.

Ocelot

A humanoid version of an ocelot mob, as it appeared prior to the Texture Update.

This skin was originally part of Skin Pack 5.

The Walking Dead Lee Everett

A skin of Lee Everett, the protagonist of the episodic adventure game The Walking Dead.

This skin was originally part of Skin Pack 5.

Quotes
“Get cracking with these starter skins and old favorites brought over from Minecraft editions of yore. Widen your wardrobe, turn out in a tux, or rock it as a croc!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock EditionSeptember 12, 2017
Added Legacy Skin Pack to the Marketplace.?
The Legacy Skin Pack gets delisted from the Marketplace.
Issues
Issues relating to "Legacy Skin Pack" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery



			Tennis Steve in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Tennis Alex in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Scottish Steve in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Swedish Alex in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate


Navigation