This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 

In Legacy Console Edition, blocks, items, entities and biomes all have dedicated descriptions, which appear on-screen in a blue dialog box of sorts when the subject is first encountered, or when "What’s This?" is clicked on it in the inventory.

Contents

1 List

1.1 Unobtainable and Technical Blocks and Items
1.2 Building Blocks
1.3 Decorations
1.4 Redstone & Transportation
1.5 Materials
1.6 Food
1.7 Tools, Weapons & Armor
1.8 Brewing
1.9 Miscellaneous
1.10 Entities
1.11 Biomes

2 History
3 Navigation

List
Blocks and items are listed according to their order in the Legacy Console Edition Creative inventory, including some additional obtainable block and item variants not found in the Creative inventory on Legacy Console. Other technical blocks are listed separately. All tables are sortable and can be sorted alphabetically.

Unobtainable and Technical Blocks and Items

Item
Description

Frosted Ice

A type of ice that melts quickly.

Tripwire

Activates a connected Tripwire Hook when an entity passes through it.

Wheat

When fully grown, crops can be harvested to collect wheat.

Melon Stem

—

Attached Melon Stem

—

Pumpkin Stem

—

Attached Pumpkin Stem

—

Beetroots

—

Nether Wart

Found in Nether Fortresses. Will drop Nether Wart when broken.

Cocoa

Can be farmed to collect Cocoa Beans.

Potatoes

Restores 0.5 , or can be cooked in a furnace. This can be planted in farmland.

Carrots

Restores 1.5 , and can be crafted into a golden carrot. Can be planted in farmland.

Sweet Berry Bush

A thorny bush that grows edible Sweet Berries!

Bamboo Sapling

Bamboo Saplings can be planted and will eventually grow into a towering bamboo plant.

Bubble Column

Unknown

Fire

—

Nether Portal

Standing in the portal allows you to pass between the Overworld and the Nether.

End Portal

This can be activated using twelve Eye [sic] of Ender, and will allow the player to travel to The End dimension.

End Gateway

This block is created by the defeat of the Dragon in The End.

Command Block

Used to execute commands.

Chain Command Block

—

Repeating Command Block

—

Minecart with Command Block

Used to execute commands on the move!

Structure Block

—

Structure Void

—

Barrier

An invisible but solid block.

Air

An empty block suitable for breathing.

Water

Extinguishes fire and helps crops grow. Can be collected in a bucket.

Lava

Sets fire to anything that touches it. Can be collected in a bucket.

Building Blocks

Item
Description

Stone
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect cobblestone.

Grass Block
A block of dirt with grass growing on top. Collected using a shovel. Can be used for construction.

Grass Path
A decorative block that can be created by using a shovel on a Grass Block.

Dirt
Collected using a shovel. Can be used for construction.

Farmland
Ground that has been prepared ready to plant seeds.

Cobblestone
Mined from stone using a pickaxe. Can be used to construct a furnace or stone tools.

Smooth Stone
Can be used to create Smooth Stone Slabs

Sand
Collected using a shovel. Can be smelted into glass using the furnace. Is affected by gravity if there is no other tile underneath it.

Sandstone
Used as a building material. Is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Smooth Sandstone
Used as a building material. Is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Chiseled Sandstone
Used as a building material. Is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Cut Sandstone
Used as a building material. Is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Red Sand
A red colored sand that can be found in mesas. Can be smelted into glass using the furnace. Is affected by gravity if there is no other block underneath it.

Red Sandstone
Red colored Sandstone. It is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Smooth Red Sandstone
Red colored Sandstone. It is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Chiseled Red Sandstone
Red colored Sandstone. It is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Cut Red Sandstone
Red colored Sandstone. It is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

Granite
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect granite.

Polished Granite
Can be crafted from granite for a polished look.

Andesite
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect andesite.

Polished Andesite
Can be crafted from andesite for a polished look.

Diorite
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect diorite.

Polished Diorite
Can be crafted from diorite for a polished look.

Block of Coal
A compact way of storing Coal. Can be used as fuel in a Furnace.

Dried Kelp Block
Made of 9 Dried Kelp. Can be used as fuel in a Furnace.

Block of Gold
A compact way of storing Gold.

Block of Iron
A compact way of storing Iron.

Block of Lapis Lazuli
A compact way of storing Lapis Lazuli.

Block of Diamond
A compact way of storing Diamonds.

Block of Emerald
A compact way of storing Emeralds.

Block of Quartz
Used as a decoration.

Coal Ore
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect coal.

Lapis Lazuli Ore
Can be mined with a stone pickaxe or better to collect lapis lazuli.

Diamond Ore
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better to collect diamonds.

Redstone Ore
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better to collect redstone dust.

Iron Ore
Can be mined with a stone pickaxe or better, then smelted in a furnace to produce iron ingots.

Gold Ore
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better, then smelted in a furnace to produce gold ingots.

Emerald Ore
Can be mined with an Iron pickaxe or better to collect Emeralds.

Nether Quartz Ore
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect Nether Quartz.

Nether Wart Block
A decorative block crafted from Nether Wart.

Bedrock
This cannot be broken.

Planks, all types
Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things. Can be crafted from any form of wood.

Log, all types
Chopped using an axe, and can be crafted into planks or used as a fuel.

Stripped Oak Log
An Oak log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Spruce Log
A Spruce log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Birch Log
A Birch log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Jungle Log
A Jungle log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Acacia Log
An Acacia log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Dark Oak Log
A Dark Oak log that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Wood, all types
Crafted from Logs. Can be crafted into planks, used as a fuel, or stripped with an axe.

Stripped Oak Wood
Oak wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Spruce Wood
Spruce wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Birch Wood
Birch wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Jungle Wood
Jungle wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Acacia Wood
Acacia wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Stripped Dark Oak Wood
Dark Oak wood that has had the bark removed with an axe.

Gravel
Collected using a shovel. Sometimes produces flint when dug up. Is affected by gravity if there is no other tile underneath it.

Bricks
Baked from clay in a furnace.

Mossy Cobblestone
Found in dungeons. Can be used for construction and decoration.

Obsidian
Can only be mined with a diamond pickaxe. Is produced by the meeting of water and still lava, and is used to build Nether portals.

Clay
When broken drops clay balls which can be baked into bricks in a furnace.

Ice
Slippery when walked on. Turns into water if above another block when destroyed. Melts if close enough to a light source or when placed in The Nether.

Packed Ice
A solid unmeltable block of ice that can have objects placed on it.

Blue Ice
Crafted from 9 Packed Ice blocks. Blue Ice is even more slippery!

Snow Block
A compact way to store snowballs.

Netherrack
Burns forever if set alight.

Soul Sand
Slows the movement of anything walking over it.

Glowstone
Used to create brighter light than torches. Melts snow/ice and can be used underwater.

Magma Block
Causes fire damage when you stand on it.

Sea Lantern
Underwater light sources that can be found in Ocean Monuments. Can be crafted from Prismarine shards and Prismarine crystals.

Prismarine
Rare decorative stone that can be found in Ocean Monuments. Can be crafted from Prismarine shards.

Prismarine Bricks
Decorative Prismarine brick that can be found in Ocean Monuments. Can be crafted from Prismarine shards.

Dark Prismarine
A rarer form of Prismarine that can be found in Ocean Monuments. Can be crafted with Prismarine shards and an Ink Sac.

Slime Block
Causes players and mobs to bounce when they jump on it.

Scaffolding
Scaffolding can help you create huge structures safely! You can walk inside scaffolding and stand on it.

Wooden Fence, all types
Used as a barrier that cannot be jumped over. Counts as 1.5 blocks high for players, animals and monsters, but 1 block high for other blocks.

Nether Brick Fence
Used in Nether Fortresses.

Iron Bars
Used as a barrier, similar to fences.

Stone Bricks
Made from stone blocks. Commonly found in Strongholds.

Mossy Stone Bricks
Made from stone blocks. Commonly found in Strongholds.

Cracked Stone Bricks
Made from stone blocks. Commonly found in Strongholds.

Chiseled Stone Bricks
Made from stone blocks. Commonly found in Strongholds.

Silverfish Blocks, all types
Spawns a Silverfish when destroyed. May also spawn Silverfish if nearby to another Silverfish being attacked.

Mycelium
Similar to Grass Blocks, but very good for growing mushrooms on.

Coarse Dirt
A special type of dirt that does not grow grass.

Podzol
Similar to Dirt Blocks, but very good for growing mushrooms on.

Nether Bricks
Used to build Nether Fortresses. Immune to Ghast's fireballs.

Red Nether Bricks
Crafted from Nether Wart and Nether Brick. Can be used as decoration.

End Stone
A block type found in The End. It has a very high blast resistance, and so is useful for building with.

End Stone Bricks
Crafted from End Stone. Can be used as decoration.

Chiseled Quartz Block
Used as a decoration.

Quartz Pillar
Used as a decoration.

Smooth Quartz Block
Used as a decoration.

Purpur Block
Can be mined with a pickaxe, or crafted using Popped Chorus Fruit.

Purpur Pillar
Can be mined with a pickaxe, or crafted using Purpur Slabs.

Wooden Trapdoor, all types
Activated by using, hitting them or with redstone. They function as normal doors, but are a one by one block and lay flat on the ground.

Iron Trapdoor
Iron trapdoors can only be opened by Redstone, buttons or switches.

Fence Gate, all types
Similar to a door, but used primarily with fences.

Wooden Door, all types
Wooden doors are activated by using, hitting them or with Redstone.

Iron Door
Iron doors can only be opened by Redstone, buttons or switches.

Wooden Slab, all types
Used for making long staircases. Two slabs placed on top of each other will create a normal-sized double slab block.

Slab, all types
Used for making long staircases. Two slabs placed on top of each other will create a normal-sized double slab block.

Wooden Stairs, all types
Used for compact staircases.

Stairs, all types
Used for compact staircases.

Terracotta
Created by smelting Clay in a furnace.

Stained Terracotta, all colors
Colorful blocks crafted by dyeing Terracotta.

Decorations

Item
Description

Skeleton Skull
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Wither Skeleton Skull
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Zombie Head
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Player Head
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Creeper Head
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Dragon Head
Mob Heads can be placed as a decoration, or worn as a mask in the helmet slot.

Sponge
Can absorb water nearby, turning into a wet sponge in the process.

Wet Sponge
Can be dried in a furnace, allowing the sponge to be reused.

Melon
Can be crafted from Melon Slices.

Pumpkin
Can be carved with shears to create a Carved Pumpkin. It is also the main ingredient in Pumpkin Pie.

Carved Pumpkin
Can be worn as a helmet or crafted with a torch to create a Jack-O-Lantern.

Jack o'Lantern
Used to create brighter light than torches. Melts snow/ice and can be used underwater.

Bamboo
Pandas love to eat Bamboo, and you can use it to build Scaffolding.

Sapling, all types
Can be planted and will eventually grow into a tree.

Leaves, all types
When broken, sometimes drops a sapling which can be replanted to grow into a tree.

Vines
Grows over time when placed. Can be collected using shears. Can be climbed like a ladder.

Lily Pad
Floats on water, and can be walked on.

Torch
Used to create light. Torches also melt snow and ice.

Lantern
Lanterns can be placed either hanging under a block or on top of a block. It gives slightly more light than the torch.

Shrub
Sometimes produces wheat seeds when broken.

Grass
Sometimes produces wheat seeds when broken.

Fern
Sometimes produces wheat seeds when broken.

Dead Bush
Can be used as decoration.

Flower Pot
Used as a decoration. Flowers, Saplings, Cacti, and Mushrooms can be planted in it.

Dandelion
A common yellow flower that can be used to craft yellow dye. Can also be used to breed and lead rabbits.

Poppy
A common red flower that can be used to craft red dye.

Blue Orchid
A rare blue flower that can be used to craft light blue dye.

Allium
A rare magenta flower that can be used to craft magenta dye.

Azure Bluet
A small white flower that can be used to craft light gray dye.

Red Tulip
A small red flower that can be used to craft red dye.

Orange Tulip
A small orange flower that can be used to craft orange dye.

White Tulip
A small white flower that can be used to craft light gray dye.

Pink Tulip
A small pink flower that can be used to craft pink dye.

Oxeye Daisy
A common white and yellow flower that can be used to craft light gray dye.

Cornflower
A small blue flower that can be used to craft blue dye.

Lily of the Valley
A small white flower that can be used to craft white dye.

Sunflower
A tall yellow flower that can be used to craft yellow dye.

Lilac
A tall purple flower that can be used to craft magenta dye.

Tall Grass
Double tall grass that can sometimes drop seeds.

Large Fern
A tall fern that can sometimes drop seeds.

Rose Bush
A tall red flower that can be used to craft red dye.

Peony
A tall green and pink flower that can be used to craft pink dye.

Brown Mushroom
Can be crafted with a bowl to make stew.

Red Mushroom
Can be crafted with a bowl to make stew.

Cactus
Can be cooked in a furnace to create a green dye.

Snow
Can be dug with a shovel to create snowballs.

Cobweb
Slows movement when walking through it. Can be destroyed using shears to collect string.

Glass Pane
Transparent blocks that can be used as an alternative to Glass Blocks.

Glass
Created in a furnace by smelting sand. Can be used for construction, but will break if you try to mine it.

Painting
Can be used as decoration.

Item Frame
Similar to a display case, this will display the item or block placed in it.

Sign, all types
Shows text entered by you or other players.

Bookshelf
Allows the creation of more powerful enchantments when placed around the Enchantment Table.

Hay Bale
Can be fed to Horses, Donkeys, Mules, and Llamas to heal up to 10 Hearts. Speeds up the growth of foals.

Bone Block
Crafted from Bone Meal, or found underground in fossils. Can be used as decoration.

Chorus Flower
Can be planted on End Stone to grow more Chorus Flowers, and Chorus Plants.

Chorus Plant
Grows from Chorus Flowers. Sometimes drops Chorus Fruit when destroyed.

End Rod
A decorative light source found in End Cities. Can be crafted using Blaze Rods and Popped Chorus Fruit.

Cobblestone Wall
A wall made of Cobblestone.

Mossy Cobblestone Wall
A wall made of Cobblestone.

Granite Wall
A wall made of Stone.

Diorite Wall
A wall made of Stone.

Andesite Wall
A wall made of Stone.

Sandstone Wall
A wall made of Sandstone.

Red Sandstone Wall
A wall made of Sandstone.

Stone Brick Wall
A wall made of Bricks.

Mossy Stone Brick Wall
A wall made of Bricks.

Brick Wall
A wall made of Bricks.

Nether Brick Wall
A wall made of Nether Bricks.

Red Nether Brick Wall
A wall made of Nether Bricks.

End Stone Brick Wall
A wall made of Bricks.

Prismarine Wall
A wall made of Prismarine.

Concrete, all colors
Can be mined with a pickaxe, or created when Concrete Powder comes into contact with a Water block.

Concrete Powder, all colors
Turns into Concrete after coming into contact with a Water block.

Black Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Black Terracotta in a Furnace.

Blue Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Blue Terracotta in a Furnace.

Light Blue Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Light Blue Terracotta in a Furnace.

Cyan Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Cyan Terracotta in a Furnace.

Green Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Green Terracotta in a Furnace.

Lime Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Lime Terracotta in a Furnace.

Pink Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Pink Terracotta in a Furnace.

Magenta Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Magenta Terracotta in a Furnace.

Purple Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Purple Terracotta in a Furnace.

Red Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Red Terracotta in a Furnace.

Brown Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Brown Terracotta in a Furnace.

Orange Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Orange Terracotta in a Furnace.

Yellow Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Yellow Terracotta in a Furnace.

White Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking White Terracotta in a Furnace.

Light Gray Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Light Gray Terracotta in a Furnace.

Gray Glazed Terracotta
A decorative block created by baking Gray Terracotta in a Furnace.

Creeper Charge Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Skull Charge Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Flower Charge Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Thing Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Field Masoned Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Bordure Indented Banner Pattern
Can be used to customise Banners.

Banner, all colors
A highly customizable free-standing decoration. Can be crafted using dyes in various patterns.

Illager Banner
A highly customizable free-standing decoration. Can be crafted using dyes in various patterns.

Wool, all colors
Collected from sheep, and can be colored with dyes.

Carpet, all colors
Crafted from Wool. Used as a decoration.

Stained Glass, all colors
Crafted from glass and a dye.

Stained Glass Pane, all colors
Crafted from Stained Glass.

Mushroom Block, all types
Can be used as decoration.

Sea Pickle
Small animals that generate light when underwater. Can be found in Warm Oceans.

Kelp
Can be planted in water, or dried in a Furnace and eaten.

Seagrass
Grows at the bottom of the Ocean. Can be collected with Shears and used to breed Sea Turtles.

Coral, all types
A decorative block that can be found in Coral Reefs. Can only be placed underwater.

Coral Fans, all types
A decorative block that can be found in Coral Reefs. Can be placed on the sides of blocks.

Dead Coral Fans, all types
A Coral Fan that is dried out and dead.

Coral Blocks, all types
A decorative block that can be found in Warm Oceans, and mined with a Pickaxe. Coral blocks will die if not touching water.

Dead Coral Blocks, all types
A Coral block that is dried out and dead.

Redstone & Transportation

Item
Description

Rail
Used to guide minecarts.

Powered Rail
When powered, accelerates minecarts that pass over it. When unpowered, causes minecarts to stop on it.

Detector Rail
Functions like a Pressure Plate (sends a Redstone signal when powered) but can only be activated by a Minecart.

Activator Rail
A type of rail that can enable or disable Minecarts with Hoppers and trigger Minecarts with TNT.

Ladder
Used to climb vertically.

Minecart
Used to transport you, an animal, or a monster along rails.

Minecart with Chest
Used to transport goods along rails.

Minecart with Furnace
Will move along rails and can push other minecarts when coal is put in it.

Minecart with Hopper
A special type of Minecart that functions similarly to a Hopper. It will collect items lying on tracks and from containers above it.

Minecart with TNT
A type of Minecart that acts as a moving TNT block.

Elytra
Allows the player to glide when worn.

Saddle
When used on a pig, it allows you to ride the pig. The pig can then be steered using a Carrot on a Stick.

Boat, all types
Used to travel in water more quickly than swimming.

Dispenser
Used to hold and shoot out items in a random order when given a Redstone charge.

Note Block
Plays a note when triggered. Hit it to change the pitch of the note. Placing this on top of different blocks will change the type of instrument.

Piston
When powered (using a button, a lever, a pressure plate, a redstone torch, or redstone with any one of these), a piston extends if it can and pushes blocks.

Sticky Piston
When powered (using a button, a lever, a pressure plate, a redstone torch, or redstone with any one of these), a piston extends if it can and pushes blocks. When it retracts it pulls back the block touching the extended part of the piston.

TNT
Used to cause explosions. Activated after placing by igniting with Flint and Steel item, or with an electrical charge.

Lever
Used to send an electrical charge by being turned on or off. Stays in the on or off state until pressed again.

Stone Button
Used to send an electrical charge by being pressed. Stays activated for approximately a second before shutting off again.

Wooden Button, all types
Used to send an electrical charge by being pressed. Stays activated for approximately a second before shutting off again.

Stone Pressure Plate
A pressure sensitive pad that will activate when heavy mobs or the player step on it.

Oak Pressure Plate
A sensitive Oak pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Spruce Pressure Plate
A sensitive Spruce pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Birch Pressure Plate
A sensitive Birch pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Jungle Pressure Plate
A sensitive Jungle wood pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Acacia Pressure Plate
A sensitive Acacia pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Dark Oak Pressure Plate
A sensitive Dark Oak pressure plate that can be activated by applying almost any amount of pressure.

Redstone Dust
Can be placed on the ground to carry an electrical charge. When brewed with a potion it will increase the duration of the effect.

Block of Redstone
Used as a redstone power source. Can be crafted back into Redstone.

Redstone Torch
Constantly sends an electrical charge, or can be used as a receiver/transmitter when connected to the side of a block. Can also be used for low-level lighting.

Redstone Repeater
Used in Redstone circuits as a repeater, a delayer, and/or a diode.

Redstone Lamp
Emits light when powered.

Tripwire Hook
Is activated when an entity passes through a connected Tripwire.

Daylight Detector
A block that outputs a Redstone signal based on sunlight or lack of sunlight if inverted.

Dropper
Used to hold and drop items, or push items into another container, when given a Redstone charge.

Hopper
Used to catch items or to transfer items into and out of containers.

Redstone Comparator
Used in Redstone circuits to maintain, compare, or subtract signal strength, or to measure certain block states.

Trapped Chest
Stores blocks and items inside. Place two chests side by side to create a larger chest with double capacity. A trapped chest also creates a Redstone charge when opened.

Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate
Provides a Redstone charge. The charge will be stronger if more items are on the plate. Requires more weight than the light plate.

Light Weighted Pressure Plate
Provides a Redstone charge. The charge will be stronger if more items are on the plate.

Observer
Emits a redstone signal when adjacent blocks are updated.

Materials

Item
Description

Coal
Used as a fuel in a furnace, or crafted to make a torch.

Charcoal
Used as a fuel in a furnace, or crafted to make a torch.

Diamond
Use these to create very strong tools, weapons or armor.

Emerald
Can be traded with villagers.

Iron Ingot
A shiny ingot which can be used to craft tools made from this material. Created by smelting ore in a furnace.

Gold Ingot
A shiny ingot which can be used to craft tools made from this material. Created by smelting ore in a furnace.

Nether Quartz
Created by mining Nether Quartz Ore. Can be crafted into a Block of Quartz.

Brick
Baked from clay in a furnace.

Nether Brick
Created by smelting Netherrack in a furnace. Can be crafted into Nether Brick blocks.

Stick
Used to craft torches, arrows, signs, ladders, fences and as handles for tools and weapons.

Bowl
Used to hold mushroom stew and beetroot soup. You keep the bowl when the contents have been eaten.

Bone
Collected by killing a skeleton. Can be crafted into bone meal, or fed to a wolf to tame it.

String
Collected by killing a spider. Can be crafted into a Bow or Fishing Rod, or placed on the ground to create Tripwire.

Feather
Collected by killing a chicken. Can be crafted into an arrow.

Flint
Collected by digging gravel. Can be used to craft a flint and steel.

Leather
Collected by killing a cow. Can be crafted into armor or used to make books.

Rabbit Hide
Used in crafting leather.

Gunpowder
Collected by killing a creeper. Can be crafted into TNT or used as an ingredient for brewing potions.

Clay Ball
Can be baked into bricks in a furnace.

Glowstone Dust
Collected by mining Glowstone. Can be crafted to make Glowstone blocks again or brewed with a potion to increase the potency of the effect.

Prismarine Crystals
Obtained from Sea Lanterns or by defeating Guardians and Elder Guardians. Can be used in crafting Sea Lanterns.

Prismarine Shard
Dropped by Guardians and Elder Guardians. Can be used in crafting Prismarine and Sea Lanterns.

Nautilus Shell
Can be found by fishing, or killing Drowned. Used to craft a Conduit.

Heart of the Sea
Found in buried treasure chests. Used to craft a Conduit.

Wheat Seeds
Can be planted in farmland to grow crops. Make sure there's enough light for the seeds to grow!

Melon Seeds
Can be planted to grow melons.

Pumpkin Seeds
Can be planted to grow pumpkins.

Beetroot Seeds
Can be planted in farmland to grow beetroot.

Wheat
Harvested from crops. Can be used to craft food items.

Sugar Cane
Can be crafted to create sugar.

Egg
Dropped randomly by chickens. Can be crafted into food items.

Sugar
Used in the cake recipe, and as an ingredient for brewing potions.

Slimeball
Collected by killing a slime. Can be used as an ingredient for brewing potions or crafted to make Sticky Pistons.

Blaze Rod
Used in potion brewing, and for locating Strongholds. Dropped by Blazes who tend to be found near or in Nether Fortresses.

Gold Nugget
Dropped by Zombie Pigmen when they die. Zombie Pigmen can be found in the Nether. Used as an ingredient for brewing potions.

Iron Nugget
Created by smelting Iron armour and tools in a Furnace. Can be crafted into an Iron Ingot.

Shulker Shell
Sometimes dropped by Shulkers. Can be used to craft a Shulker Box.

Nether Wart
Used in potion brewing. This can be found naturally growing in Nether Fortresses. It can also be planted on Soul Sand.

Popped Chorus Fruit
Created by cooking Chorus Fruit in a Furnace. Used to craft End Rods and Purpur blocks.

Scute
Dropped by baby Sea Turtles when they grow up. Used to craft Turtle Shell helmets.

Ink Sac
Used as a dye to create Black Wool.

Lapis Lazuli
Used in enchanting and as a dye to create Blue Wool.

Light Blue Dye
Used as a dye to create Light Blue Wool.

Cyan Dye
Used as a dye to create Cyan Wool.

Green Dye
Used as a dye to create Green Wool.

Lime Dye
Used as a dye to create Lime Wool.

Pink Dye
Used as a dye to create Pink Wool.

Magenta Dye
Used as a dye to create Magenta Wool.

Purple Dye
Used as a dye to create Purple Wool.

Red Dye
Used as a dye to create Red Wool.

Cocoa Beans
Used as a dye to create Brown Wool, as an ingredient in cookies, or to grow Cocoa Pods.

Orange Dye
Used as a dye to create Orange Wool.

Yellow Dye
Used as a dye to create Yellow Wool.

Bone Meal
Used to instantly grow crops, trees, tall grass, huge mushrooms and flowers; and as a dye to create White Wool.

Light Gray Dye
Used as a dye to create Light Gray Wool. (Note: Light Gray Dye can also be made by combining Gray Dye with Bone Meal, letting you make four Light Gray Dyes instead of three.)

Gray Dye
Used as a dye to create Gray Wool.

Black Dye
Used as a dye to create Black Wool.

Blue Dye
Used as a dye to create Blue Wool.

Brown Dye
Used as a dye to create Brown Wool.

White Dye
Used as a dye to create White Wool.

Food

Item
Description

Apple
Restores 2 , and can be crafted into a golden apple.

Golden Apple
Restores 2 , and regenerates health for 4 seconds. Crafted from an Apple and Gold Ingots.

Enchanted Golden Apple
Restores 2 , regenerates health for 30 seconds, and grants fire resistance and damage resistance for 5 minutes. Crafted from an apple and gold blocks.

Melon Slice
Restores 1 .

Mushroom Stew
Restores 3 .

Rabbit Stew
Restores 5 . Cooked up with some cooked rabbit, carrot, mushroom and potato.

Beetroot Soup
Restores 3  when eaten.

Bread
Restores 2.5 .

Cake
Restores 1 . Can be used 7 times.

Cookie
Restores 1 .

Cooked Cod
Restores 2.5 . Created by cooking a raw Cod in a furnace.

Raw Cod
Restores 1 , or can be cooked in a furnace. Can be fed to an ocelot to tame it.

Cooked Salmon
Restores 3 . Created by cooking a raw salmon in a furnace.

Raw Salmon
Restores 1 , or can be cooked in a furnace. Can be fed to an ocelot to tame it.

Tropical Fish
Restores 0.5 .

Pufferfish
Restores 0.5  however it is poisonous. Can also be used as an ingredient in brewing potions.

Cooked Porkchop
Restores 4 . Created by cooking a raw porkchop in a furnace.

Raw Porkchop
Restores 0.5 , or can be cooked in a furnace.

Steak
Restores 4 . Created by cooking raw beef in a furnace.

Raw Beef
Restores 0.5 , or can be cooked in a furnace.

Cooked Chicken
Restores 3 . Created by cooking raw chicken in a furnace.

Raw Chicken
Restores 1 , or can be cooked in a furnace. Eating this can cause you to be poisoned.

Cooked Mutton
Restores 3 . Created by cooking raw mutton in a furnace.

Raw Mutton
Restores 1 , or can be cooked in a furnace.

Cooked Rabbit
Restores 2.5 . Used to cook up some rabbit stew.

Raw Rabbit
Restores 0.5 , or can be cooked in a furnace.

Rotten Flesh
Restores 2 . Eating this can cause you to be poisoned.

Spider Eye
This is a poisonous food and brewing item. Dropped when a Spider or Cave Spider is killed by a player.

Potato
Restores 0.5 , or can be cooked in a furnace. This can be planted in farmland.

Baked Potato
Restores 2.5 . Created by cooking a potato in a furnace.

Poisonous Potato
Restores 1 . Eating this can cause you to become poisoned.

Carrot
Restores 1.5 , and can be crafted into a golden carrot. Can be planted in farmland.

Golden Carrot
Restores 3 . Crafted from a carrot and gold nuggets.

Pumpkin Pie
Restores 4 .

Beetroot
Restores 0.5  when eaten. Can also be crafted into Rose Red dye, or Beetroot Soup.

Chorus Fruit
Restores 2 , any may teleport the player. Can be cooked in a Furnace.

Dried Kelp
Restores 0.5 . Can be eaten more quickly than most other foods.

Sweet Berries
Tasty Berries that can be eaten or used to plant a Sweet Berry Bush.

Tools, Weapons & Armor

Item
Description

Leather Helmet
Gives the user 0.5  when worn.

Leather Chestplate
Gives the user 1.5  when worn.

Leather Leggings
Gives the user 1  when worn.

Leather Boots
Gives the user 0.5  when worn.

Chainmail Helmet
Gives the user 1  when worn.

Chainmail Chestplate
Gives the user 2.5  when worn.

Chainmail Leggings
Gives the user 2  when worn.

Chainmail Boots
Gives the user 0.5  when worn.

Iron Helmet
Gives the user 1  when worn.

Iron Chestplate
Gives the user 3  when worn.

Iron Leggings
Gives the user 2.5  when worn.

Iron Boots
Gives the user 1  when worn.

Golden Helmet
Gives the user 1  when worn.

Golden Chestplate
Gives the user 2.5  when worn.

Golden Leggings
Gives the user 1.5  when worn.

Golden Boots
Gives the user 0.5  when worn.

Diamond Helmet
Gives the user 1.5  when worn.

Diamond Chestplate
Gives the user 4  when worn.

Diamond Leggings
Gives the user 3  when worn.

Diamond Boots
Gives the user 1.5  when worn.

Sword, all types
Deals more damage than by hand.

Shovel, all types
Used to dig dirt, grass, sand, gravel and snow faster than by hand. Shovels are required to dig snowballs.

Pickaxe, all types
Required to mine stone-related blocks and ore.

Axe, all types
Used to chop wood-related blocks faster than by hand.

Hoe, all types
Used to till dirt and grass blocks to prepare for crops.

Compass
Points to your start point.

Empty Map
When used becomes a map of the part of the world that you are in, and gets filled in as you explore.

Filled Map
Will create an image of an area explored while held. This can be used for path-finding.

Bow
Allows for ranged attacks by using arrows.

Arrow
Used as ammunition for bows.

Flint and Steel
Used to create fire, ignite TNT and creepers, and open a Nether portal once it has been built.

Shield
Allows the player to block, reducing damage taken from attacks.

Fire Charge
Useful for setting things on fire, or for indiscriminately starting fires when fired from a Dispenser.

Clock
Displays positions of the Sun and Moon.

Shears
Used to obtain wool from sheep and to harvest Cobwebs, Leaves, and Seagrass blocks.

Fishing Rod
Used to catch fish.

Carrot on a Stick
Used to control a saddled pig when riding on it.

Lead
Used to leash mobs to the player or Fence posts.

Totem of Undying
Prevents the holder from dying, but breaks in the process. Dropped by Evokers.

Diamond Horse Armor
A special type of Armor that can be equipped to a horse. Provides 5.5 .

Gold Horse Armor
A special type of Armor that can be equipped to a horse. Provides 3.5 .

Iron Horse Armor
A special type of Armor that can be equipped to a horse. Provides 2.5 .

Leather Horse Armor
A special type of Armor that can be equipped to a horse. Provides 1.5 .

Armor Stand
Can be equipped to display armor and other decorative items such as mob heads.

Turtle Shell
Gives the user 1  when worn, and lets them breathe underwater for longer.

Trident
A hybrid weapon that can be thrown, or used to stab. Can receive a variety of useful enchantments to make it particularly effective in water or rain.

Crossbow
A powerful alternative to the bow that can use arrows or fireworks.

Arrow of Night Vision
A player hit with this arrow will be able to see in the dark.

Arrow of Invisibility
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will become invisible.

Arrow of Leaping
A player hit with this arrow will jump higher.

Arrow of Fire Resistance
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will become immune to damage from fire, lava, and Blaze ranged attacks.

Arrow of Swiftness
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will move and sprint faster, and jump farther.

Arrow of Slowness
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will move and sprint slower, and not jump as far.

Arrow of Water Breathing
A player hit with this arrow will be able to breath normally underwater.

Arrow of Healing
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will recover some health.

Arrow of Harming
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will be hurt more than usual.

Arrow of Poison
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will take additional damage over time.

Arrow of Regeneration
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will recover some health over time.

Arrow of Strength
A player or monster hit with this arrow will deal more damage.

Arrow of Weakness
A player or monster hit with this arrow will deal less damage.

Arrow of Luck
A player hit with this arrow is more likely to get better items from fishing.

Arrow of Decay
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will take damage over time.

Arrow of the Turtle Master
A player hit with this arrow will have increased damage resistance, but greatly reduced speed.

Arrow of Slow Falling
A player, animal, or monster hit with this arrow will fall much more slowly than usual.

Enchanted Book, all types
Used with an Anvil to enchant weapons, tools or armor.

Brewing

Item
Description

Bottle o' Enchanting
When thrown, it drops Experience Orbs which increase your experience points when collected.

Dragon's Breath
Used in potion brewing. Obtained by capturing the Ender Dragon's acid breath in a Glass Bottle.

Ghast Tear
Used in potion brewing. Dropped by Ghasts when they die.

Fermented Spider Eye
Used in potion brewing; mainly to create potions with a negative effect.

Blaze Powder
Used in potion brewing, or crafted with other items to make Eye of Ender or Magma Cream.

Magma Cream
Used in potion brewing.

Glistering Melon Slice
Used in potion brewing.

Rabbit's Foot
Used as an ingredient for brewing potions.

Phantom Membrane
Used as an ingredient for brewing potions.

Glass Bottle
Can be filled with water, and used as the starting ingredient for a potion in the Brewing Stand.

Awkward Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Mundane Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Thick Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Splash Awkward Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Splash Mundane Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Splash Thick Potion
Has no effects, can be used in a brewing stand to create potions by adding more ingredients.

Water Bottle
Used as the base of all potions. Use in a brewing stand to create potions.

Splash Water Bottle
Used as the base of all potions. Use in a brewing stand to create potions.

Lingering Water Bottle
Used as the base of all potions. Use in a brewing stand to create potions.

Potion, all types with effects
Can be drank to receive effects.

Splash Potion, all types with effects
When thrown, will give an effect to nearby mobs and players.

Lingering Potion, all types with effects
When thrown, will linger around for a few seconds, giving an effect to nearby mobs and players.

Potion of Night Vision
Makes dark areas appear as if in daylight, even underwater.

Potion of Invisibility
Makes affected players, animals and monsters invisible.

Potion of Leaping
Increases the jump height of the affected player.

Potion of Fire Resistance
Makes the affected players, animals, and monsters immune to damage from fire, lava, and ranged Blaze attacks.

Potion of Swiftness
Increases the movement speed of affected players, animals, and monsters. Also increases a player's sprinting speed, jumping length and field of view.

Potion of Slowness
Reduces the movement speed of affected players, animals, and monsters. Also reduces the player's sprinting speed, jumping length and field of view.

Potion of Water Breathing
Allows affected players to breath normally underwater.

Potion of Healing
Instantly restores health to the affected players, animals, and monsters.

Potion of Harming
Instantly damages affected players, animals, and monsters.

Potion of Poison
Damages the affected players, animals, and monsters over time.

Potion of Regeneration
Restores health to the affected players, animals, and monsters over time.

Potion of Strength
Increases the damage caused by affected players and monsters when attacking.

Potion of Weakness
Reduces the damage caused by affected players and monsters when attacking.

Potion of Luck
Increases the chance of getting better items from fishing.

Potion of Decay
Damages affected players, animals, and monsters over time.

Potion of the Turtle Master
Increases damage resistance but greatly reduces speed.

Potion of Slow Falling
Causes affected players, animals, and monsters to fall much more slowly than usual.

Miscellaneous

Item
Description

Chest
Stores blocks and items inside. Place two chests side by side to create a larger chest with double the capacity.

Ender Chest
Similar to a Chest except that items placed in an Ender Chest are available in every one of the player's Ender Chests, even in different dimensions.

Crafting Table
Allows you to craft a more varied selection of items than the normal crafting.

Furnace
Allows you to smelt ore, create charcoal and glass, and cook fish and porkchops.

Brewing Stand
Used for making Potions and Splash Potions.

Enchanting Table
This allows players to enchant Swords, Pickaxes, Axes, Shovels, Bows, and Armor, using the player's Experience Points.

Beacon
Projects a beam of light into the sky, and can provide Status Effects to nearby players.

Conduit
Gives nearby players a powerful status effect if they are in water or rain.

Barrel
The Barrel can be used to store items like a chest.

Cartography Table
The Cartography Table provides a simpler way of cloning and creating maps.

Loom
A Loom can be used to dye Banners more efficiently than Crafting Tables.

Lectern
A lectern is a block found in villages, it can be used to hold books for multiple players to read in multiplayer.

Blast Furnace
The Blast Furnace can be used to smelt ores faster than a furnace can.

Smoker
The Smoker can be used to cook food items faster than a furnace can.

Campfire
The Campfire can be used to cook food or act as a light source or smoke signal.

Composter
The Composter can be used to recycle various plant and food items to produce Bone Meal.

Grindstone
The Grindstone can be used to restore durability and disenchant equipment.

Stonecutter
The Stonecutter can be used to craft stone related items.

Fletching Table
Fletching Tables are Villager work stations that appear within villages.

Smithing Table
Smithing Tables are Villager work stations that appear within villages.

Bell
Use the Bell to alert villagers of nearby danger.

Shulker Box
A special kind of chest that can contain items even when broken. Can be crafted using a Chest and Shulker Shells.

Dyed Shulker Box, all colors
A special kind of chest that can contain items even when broken. Can be crafted using a Chest and Shulker Shells.

Bed, all colors
Used to forward time from any time at night to morning if all the players in the world are in bed, and changes the spawn point of the player. Beds can be crafted in various colors by using dyed wool.

End Portal Frame
Used to form an End Portal.

Dragon Egg
This block is created by the defeat of the Dragon in The End.

End Crystal
Heals the Ender Dragon, and can be used to respawn it. Explodes when attacked.

Jukebox
Plays Music Discs.

Anvil
Can be used to repair weapons, tools and armor.

Slightly Damaged Anvil

Very Damaged Anvil

Bucket
Used to hold and transport water, lava and milk.

Lava Bucket
Used to hold and transport lava.

Water Bucket
Used to hold and transport water.

Milk Bucket
Used to hold and transport milk.

Bucket of Cod
Used to hold and transport cod.

Bucket of Salmon
Used to hold and transport salmon.

Bucket of Pufferfish
Used to hold and transport pufferfish.

Bucket of Tropical Fish
Used to hold and transport tropical fish.

Cauldron
Used to mix dyes and dye armor, or store Potions and make Tipped Arrows. Filled with water by rain or with a bucket of water.

Snowball
Collected by digging snow. Can be thrown.

Paper
Used to create books, maps, and fireworks.

Book
Can be used to create bookshelves or enchanted to make Enchanted Books.

Book and Quill
A Book that can be written in.

Ender Pearl
Dropped by Endermen when they die. Throwing an Ender Pearl will teleport the player to wherever it lands, at the cost of some health.

Eye of Ender
When thrown, will show the direction to an End Portal. When twelve of these are placed in the End Portal Frames, the End Portal will be activated.

Name Tag
Used to name mobs in the world.

Nether Star
Dropped by the Wither, used in crafting Beacons.

Monster Spawner
Spawns monsters into the world.

Turtle Egg
Laid on Sand blocks by Sea Turtles, and will hatch at night after a while. Very fragile!

Spawn Egg
When thrown can spawn a creature of the type indicated.

Music Disc, all types
Collected by getting a skeleton to kill a creeper. Can be played in a jukebox.

Firework Rocket, all types
When activated, creates colorful explosions. The color, effect, shape and fade are determined by the Firework Star used when the Firework is created.

Firework Star, all types
Used to determine the color, effect and shape of a Firework.

Entities

Entity
Description

Creeper
Explodes if you get too close!

Skeleton
Fires arrows at you. Drops arrows when killed.

Wither Skeleton
Armed with a sword. Can afflict you with Wither, which drains your health.

Stray
Armed with Tipped Arrows. Can afflict you with Slowness for 30 seconds.

Spider
Attacks you when you are close to it. Can climb walls. Drops string when killed.

Cave Spider
Has a venomous bite.

Zombie
Attacks you when you are close to it.

Zombie Villager
A Villager that has been zombified! Is there a cure?

Husk
A zombie that doesn't burn in sunlight. Its attacks will make you hungry!

Drowned
A Zombie that has drowned. Sometimes carries a Trident.

Slime
Splits into smaller Slimes when damaged.

Magma Cube
Found in The Nether. Splits into smaller Magma Cubes when damaged.

Witch
Found in swamps. Attacks by throwing Potions, and drops Potions when killed.

Silverfish
Attracts nearby hidden Silverfish when attacked. Hides in stone blocks.

Ghast
Fires flaming balls at you that explode on contact.

Zombie Pigmen
Initially docile, but will attack in groups if you attack one.

Blaze
Found in the Nether, mostly inside Nether Fortresses. Drops Blaze Rods when killed.

Enderman
Will attack you if you look at it. Can also move blocks around.

Endermite
There is a small chance using an Ender pearl will spawn one. Will attack you if you are nearby.

Shulker
A hostile mob found in End Cities. They hide in their shells to blend in with Purpur Blocks around them.

Phantom
A creature of nightmares that hunts tired players.

Guardian
A hostile creature found near Ocean Monuments. Watch out for its laser!

Elder Guardian
A hostile creature found in Ocean Monuments. A much stronger version of the Guardian.

Evoker
Evokers live in Woodland Mansions. They attack with Fangs, and summon Vexes.

Vex
Vexes are ghostly entities that are summoned by Evokers. They are capable of flying, and can pass through any block unharmed.

Vindicator
Vindicators are hostile and armed with an Axe.

Pillager
Hostile Mob that uses a Crossbow!

Ravager
Hostile mobs that appear during Village Raids. Blocking their attacks with a Shield can stun them!

Villager
Found in villages, villagers will offer to sell items to the player depending on their profession.

Wandering Trader
A special trader who roams the world collecting and selling rare and exotic items.

Bat
These flying creatures are found in caverns or other large enclosed spaces.

Pig
Drops porkchops when killed. Can be ridden by using a saddle.

Sheep
Drops wool when sheared (if it has not already been sheared). Can be dyed to make its wool a different color.

Cow
Drops leather when killed. Can also be milked with a bucket.

Mooshroom
Makes mushroom stew when used with a bowl. Drops mushrooms and becomes a normal cow when sheared.

Chicken
Drops feathers when killed, and also randomly lays eggs.

Rabbit
A harmless creature. May drop a rabbit hide or a rabbit's foot when killed.

Squid
Drops Ink Sacs when killed.

Cod
A tasty fish that travels in shoals.

Salmon
A tasty fish that prefers colder Oceans, and can swim up rivers.

Pufferfish
A fish that puffs up when scared, poisoning anything that touches it!

Tropical Fish
A colorful fish that prefers warmer Oceans.

Parrot
Parrots are colorful birds that inhabit Jungles. They enjoy perching on shoulders and mimicking sounds, and dislike Chocolate Cookies.

Wolf
Docile until attacked, when they will attack you back. Can be tamed using bones, which causes the wolf to follow you around and attack anything that attacks you.

Ocelot
Found in Jungles. Can be tamed using Raw Salmon or Cod. You will need to let the Ocelot approach you though; any sudden movements will scare it away.

Cat
Found as strays in villages and witch huts. Can be tamed using Salmon or Cod.

Polar Bear
Initially docile, but an adult will become aggressive if you attack it or its cub.

Panda
A Jungle animal that can have six different personalities, and really loves Bamboo.

Horse
These animals can be tamed, and can then be ridden.

Donkey
These animals can be tamed, and can then be ridden. They can have a chest attached.

Mule
Born when a Horse and a Donkey breed. These animals can be tamed, and can then be ridden and carry chests.

Skeleton Horse
A skeletal horse created when lightning strikes!

Zombie Horse
An undead horse. Cannot be tamed!

Llama
Llamas can be tamed and ridden. By using a lead, Llamas can be organized into long caravans and used to haul items.

Turtle
An amphibious mob that always returns home to lay its eggs. Baby Sea Turtles drop a Scute when they grow up.

Dolphin
A playful sea creature that will follow swimming players, and help them swim faster! Feed fish to a Dolphin and it might help in other ways.

Iron Golem
Appears in Villages to protect them. Can be created usingIron Blocks and Pumpkins.

Snow Golem
The Snow Golem can be created by players using snow blocks and a pumpkin. They will throw snowballs at their creator's enemies.

Ender Dragon
This is a large black dragon found in The End.

Wither
Can be creating using Wither Skulls and Soul Sand. Fires exploding skulls at you.

Illusioner
A powerful Illager that casts spells. Is also armed with a bow.

Giant
None

Player
None

Area Effect Cloud
None

Arrow
None

Dragon Fireball
None

Egg
None

Ender Pearl
None

Evoker Fangs
None

Experience Bottle
None

Experience Orb
None

Eye of Ender
None

Falling Block
None

Fireball
None

Fishing Bobber
None

Item
None

Lightning Bolt
None

Llama Spit
None

Minecart with Spawner
None

Splash Potion
None

Shulker Bullet
None

Small Fireball
None

Snowball
None

Spectral Arrow
None

Primed TNT
None

Trident
None

Wither Skull
None

Biomes

Biome
Description

Plains
A temperate grass land biome with few trees. Livestock and Horses will spawn here as will Villages.

Savanna
A warm dry biome with no rain. Villages can spawn here as can Horses and Llamas [sic].

Mesa
A hot arid biome.

Desert
A hot biome with no rainfall, with little vegetation other than Cacti. Desert Villages [sic] can be found here as can Pyramids and Wells but no Livestock [sic] will spawn.

Forest
A temperate woodland biome with plentiful flowers and mushrooms. Wolves may spawn here in addition to the usual Livestock [sic].

Roofed Forest
A temperate biome covered in a dense forest such that at ground level it is often dark enough for Monsters [sic] to spawn.

Jungle
A warm biome encrusted with dense tall forest and thick vegetation underfoot. Ocelots can spawn here and you can find Melons and Cocoa Pods. Jungle Temples can also spawn here.

Swampland
A dank, wet biome of variable temperature. Witch Huts and Giant Mushrooms can be found here and Slimes will spawn on the surface.

Extreme Hills
A cold biome with sparse vegetation. Livestock will spawn and it is the only biome where you can find Emerald [sic] ore and Silverfish. It will snow here at higher altitudes.

Ocean
A temperate Ocean [sic] biome that can contain Seagrass, Kelp, and Cod.

Warm Ocean
A warmer Ocean [sic] biome that can contain Coral [sic] reefs, Cod, and Sea Pickles, but not Kelp.

Lukewarm Ocean
A lukewarm Ocean [sic] biome that can contain Seagrass, Kelp, and Cod.

Cold Ocean
A colder Ocean [sic] biome that can contain Seagrass, Kelp, Cod, and Salmon.

Frozen Ocean
The coldest Ocean [sic] biome of all, where it snows and any surface water will begin to freeze. Squid and Cod and spawn here, but Dolphins won't.

Ice Flats
An icy biome with little vegetation, it will snow here and lakes will start to freeze over. Villages can be found here as well.

Cold Taiga
A snowy variant of the Taiga biome, where ferns and spruce trees grow. Wolves naturally spawn here.

Taiga
A coniferous woodland biome. Villages can be found here, and Wolves may spawn in addition to the usual Livestock [sic].

Redwood Taiga
A cold biome similar to the regular biome but with large redwood trees.

Mushroom Island
An eccentric biome populated with Giant Mushrooms and Mooshrooms where Mushrooms can grow in sunlight. Little else can be found here and it's rare to find other creatures.

Nether
A hot biome with no rain and an ominous red fog. Ghasts, Zombie Pigmen and Magma Cubes will spawn here.

End
A cold desolate biome with no rain. Endermen will spawn frequently at night time and the Enderdragon can be found at the centre of the world if biome features are enabled.[verify]

History



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Navigation