This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article is missing information about: 2026 update 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Lessons in Good Trouble

Map maker(s)

Minecraft Education
Felisa Ford, Ken Shelton, Natasha Rachell
thecommonpeople

Price

Free

Release date

November 6, 2020

Tags

Modern
Human
Story
Historical
Life

Genre(s)

Educational
Equity and Inclusion

Players

Single player (1)

Website page

Lessons in Good Trouble

Article

"Check out Good Trouble for Juneteenth!"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Lessons in Good Trouble",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Minecraft Education article, displayed as Minecraft Education)\n* (link to Felisa Ford article, displayed as Felisa Ford), (link to Ken Shelton article, displayed as Ken Shelton), (link to Natasha Rachell article, displayed as Natasha Rachell)\n*thecommonpeople",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 6, 2020",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "<div style=\"\" class=\"collapsible collapsed collapsetoggle-inline \">\n\n<div class=\"collapsible-content \" style=\"\">Modern<br>\nHuman<br>\nStory<br>\nHistorical<br>\nLife\n</div>\n</div>",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Educational\n* Equity and Inclusion",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player (1)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/lessons-in-good-trouble Lessons in Good Trouble]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/check-out-good-trouble-juneteenth- \"Check out Good Trouble for Juneteenth!\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art.
Lessons in Good Trouble, also known as Good Trouble and Good Troubles: Lessons in Social Justice, is an educational map created to teach the history of civil rights movements, created in partnership with Teaching Tolerance.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 USA, 2020
1.2 Pakistan, 2012
1.3 S. Africa, 1992
1.4 USA, 50's & 60's
1.5 India, 1900s
1.6 London, 1918
1.7 BLM Plaza, 2020

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Internal
2.3 Introductions

3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Announcement
4.2 Bedrock Edition
4.3 Education

5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 NPCs
6.2 Promotional images
6.3 Screenshots
6.4 In other media

7 References
8 External links
9 Navigation

Summary
The info room.
The map opens on a room lined with potted ferns and illuminated by sea lanterns, with a large green sign explaining the message of what will follow. Once the player is ready to begin the campaign, they can interact with an NPC; opposing them is a set of dark oak doors, which can be opened but lead nowhere, blocked by barriers.‌[Minecraft Education  only]
The map proper begins in a lobby filled with many NPCs, the closest being Congressman John Lewis, standing in front of the same green speech. Interacting with him will explain who he is, and point towards an activity guide which can be read through either a lectern or a chest of books, explaining more about the map's subject. Furthermore, he can transport the player into the main story of the map, with additional NPCs present to warp to a desired section.

USA, 2020
Protestors in Washington D.C.
Set in Black Lives Matter Plaza in downtown Washington, D.C., John Lewis begins by introducing the concept of the map: he will teach the player on the history of several heroes throughout history. He points the player towards a green beacon, where he will teleport and expand on the subject. The first is located by two sets of protestors, holding birch signs in support of Black Lives Matter. John reminisces about his career, helping the Civil Rights Movement.
He continues behind a larger crowd, grouped on the L in Lives. He recounts the many times he'd been arrested for speaking out, from sit-ins to the Freedom Rides. The conversation progresses on the M of Matters, with a much smaller crowd, as John stresses that there are many people across the globe who are fighting for equality. Just like the player, they can make a difference, enforcing what's right where justice hasn't been served. He invites the player to engage in time travel to meet other important figures across history.
Near the largest crowd in the area, so large that there are police NPCs present, John Lewis explains the origins of Black Lives Matter, crediting Alicia Garza, Patrisse Cullors and Ayọ Tometi. From there, the protest will culminate in a police blockade, with two vehicles in tow. Beyond those, John Lewis offers an activity, teaching the player about the significance of street art, such as graffiti. Using a spot on the city block, he enables the player to build their own street art, in the form of a chest containing all colors of concrete, three diamond pickaxes, and red, orange, yellow, lime, light blue, blue, magenta, and pink stained glass. The blocks can only be placed inside of a 10x44 grid, marked by smooth stone and iron bars.
After completing the optional activity, players can approach John again, now in front of a glowstone arrow. He tells a story about how he loved to read as a child, but was barred from reading due to racial prejudice, leading him to be inspired by Martin Luther King Jr., and eventually write books of his own. Thus, the area transitions into a build of a large book, leading into the second area.

Pakistan, 2012
Citizens of Pakistan.
The section begins with a downhill march, down a path through a badlands biome representing Pakistan into a small town, with buildings made of red sandstone and acacia planks. John Lewis introduces Malala Yousafzai, and lets her explain her upbringing under the Taliban, and accomplishments culminating in winning a Nobel Peace Prize. Not far from the two is another activity, hosted by Malala Yousafzai. She explains that the Taliban has been defeated in the local village, and the Malala Fund have requested that the player help repair a girls school. Similar to the Street Art activity, players are allowed to build in a confined space, now with a 16×13 radius, and a greater variety of blocks to build with in a double chest.
Once that activity is concluded, players can approach John Lewis by a nearby military vehicle, thanking Malala for her hard work. He changes the subject to a different point in history, pointing towards a rapidly transforming road, leading into the next section.

S. Africa, 1992
Segregation in South Africa.
Set in South Africa, the area can be seen from quite far away, due to the presence of large purple trees. Immediately, John Lewis introduces the player to Nelson Mandela, and explains his role in advocating for equality under the Apartheid Government. Nelson elaborates, talking about how he was sentenced for thirty years, but didn't let that stop him, culminating in him ending Apartheid in 1992 and his election as the first black president of South Africa. The player can progress down a road, showing the segregation on both sides of the road, with the left being white and right black.
At the end of the road is Nelson, who points towards a statue dedicated to Steve Biko. He requests that the player learn about other activists who stood up to the Apartheid, and build a monument to honor them on a 7×7 spot. Behind him is John Lewis, standing on a glowstone disk, who says the next stop on the journey is America in the 1960's, where he'll share some of his own experiences.

USA, 50's & 60's
Martin Luther King Jr, beside two of the pivotal stories of the Civil Rights Movement.
In order to enter the area, players must pass through a doorway into a cityscape, somewhat larger than the one before, with John Lewis and a beacon visible on top of a steep roadway. This time, he is standing beside Martin Luther King Jr. himself, who recounts his upbringing in the segregated south, and his famous March on Washington. Not far away is a second Martin Luther King Jr, who recounts the Greensboro sit-ins in front of the diner where they happened. Instead of a building challenge, Dr. King instead encourages the player to write about their own experiences with discrimination, gifting them a book and quill.
Behind him, is a recreation of the diner, complete with a partial replica of the interior. Three white NPCs sit at chiseled quartz in front of the windows, while stand-ins for David Richmond, Franklin McCain, Ezell Blair Jr., and Joseph McNeil are at the counter. Beside the diner, marked by a beacon, is another recreation, in the form of the site of the Montgomery bus boycott. Beside the beacon is John Lewis, and Rosa Parks herself, who is cited as an inspiration by John.

The Edmund Pettus Bridge.
Outside the bus, the road takes a left, with many activists standing on both sides of the sidewalk. An NPC, named Civil Rights Activist, explains that John Lewis led the first of three Selma to Montgomery marches. Following a series of glowstone arrows, the player crosses over Edmund Pettus Bridge, as protestors begin to slowly appear. At the end of the path is a green beacon, before a series of police officers and guard dogs. Instead of John Lewis, at the end of the path is his younger self, explaining more about the protests and the abuse he suffered by the police. After walking past the blockades, John Lewis as he appears elsewhere in the map returns, and explains they must now travel even further back in time.

India, 1900s
A village in India.
Once again, the section is accessed by passing through a building, this time a large palace. The player will pass by several regal NPCs, with a nobleman above on a balcony, before passing through a grassland into a rural village made of terracotta with hay roofs. Exploring will lead to a temple, where John Lewis will be standing beside none other than Mahatma Gandhi himself. Interacting with John Lewis will establish many of Gandhi's accomplishments, inspiring many people, including Martin Luther King Jr. Gandhi will elaborate, stressing his belief in satyagraha, which he learned while in South Africa.
Right beside the structure will be a second Gandhi, beside the area's resident activity. He will explain his belief in pacifism, loving all (including enemies), and encourages building a monument to represent his teachings. Unlike the others challenges, the terrain used is made up of allow blocks with a nearby structure block, enabling the player to export the build if desired. Down another path of glowstone arrows will lead back to John Lewis, pointing towards London.

London, 1918
London during 1918.
Entering through a brick gate, the player will find a 20th century city, with dirt roads and wagons immediately present. Passing by a propaganda poster, players can find John Lewis beside Emmeline Pankhurst, founder of the Women's Franchise League. She explains the pronunciation of suffragettes; it was "suffraGETtes, because we intended to GET the vote-and we did!" Behind her is a poster in support of her movement, and to the right is an activity. Instead of building or creating anything, Emmeline tasks the player to spread word of women being allowed to vote, in order to open the gate to the final section.
The closest to the site of the vote is named Rebecca, identifiable by her red dress and brown hair, located right next to the John Lewis. The second closest, Flora, is to the right and stationed beside a wagon. Closest to the entrance, Jennifer, can be reached by passing by a rounded display of a skull, and is across the street from Emma, in front of several armor displays. From there the player can find Hortense inside of a library, slightly out of reach by broken stairs, and from there can see Hannah across another street. Behind her and a wagon is Charlene, and to the left of the library is Mary, behind a desk, accompanied by several Wanderers.
Returning to the hub of the activity, players can look in on voting, with many masculine NPCs huddled in a line. John Lewis will explain he desires to return to the present, giving some final thoughts.

BLM Plaza, 2020
The end.
Walking through the London gates, the player will return to Washington D.C. However, the Black Lives Matter Plaza is now empty from a glance, John Lewis being very far away on the second T. If the player walks all the way or fast travels over, he explains that he visited the plaza in July 2020, and wrote an article that would only be published after his death. In place of the book, the end of the plaza is now the White House, with a final appearance from John Lewis, recounting on the figures of the map. The map ends with him offering to return the player to the lobby, hoping to have left a good impression.

Quotes



This section is missing information about: More quotes, all introductions 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

External
“Good Trouble is a tour of social justice movements through history based on the life and teachings of Civil Rights leader and U.S. Congressman John Lewis. Created by educators from Lewis’ home district with support from Teaching Tolerance, this educational map shows the “good trouble” that various historic leaders catalyzed around the world in acting against injustice.„ — Marketplace description“SIGNIFICANT CONTEXT: Students will understand social justice movements across history.
SOCIAL JUSTICE MOVEMENT: Students will understand how to make meaningful choices to influence positive change.
HISTORICAL AWARENESS: Students will understand important social justice movements, the leaders, and the purpose behind them.

HEROIC CONTEXT: Students will research important person(s) across various social justice movements and their role within those movements.„ — Learning Objectives“Minecraft has been helping to bring about change in the real world too, and raised $2.15m for important social justice projects! Among the projects launched was Good Trouble: Lessons in Social Justice, that went live in November 2020. Learn how "good trouble" encouraged people to speak up and challenge injustice on page 55.„ — Minecraft Annual 2022
Internal
“Can you build a better world through the power of play? Creating and learning together requires great empathy and brings a deeper understanding between people and across cultures.
Good Troubles: Lessons in Social Justice explores topics of race, equity, and social justice. These are complicated subjects that aren't always easy to understand or comfortable to confront.

We encourage you to practice awareness, exercise curiosity, and demonstrate courage as you take what you learn here into your own community. To practice awareness, think about your reactions to each of the settings and how you experience might lead you to think in a certain way, To experience curiosity, ask questions and do research to learn more. To be courageous, stand up and speak out when you see intolerance, unfairness, or injustice.„ — Intro Room Plaque“Welcome to Good Trouble: Lessons in Social Justice.
I can take you to the main lobby when you are ready.„ — Right-Click to Begin‌‌[Minecraft Education  only]
Introductions
“Hi! I'm Congressman John Lewis. I devoted my life to achieving equal rights for all. I believed that sometimes getting into good trouble helps build a more equitable world. Click the button to begin, or check out the resources on the wall to see where you can learn more about the people and movements discussed here.„ — John Lewis
Videos













History
Announcement
October 3, 2020
Lessons in Good Trouble is announced at Minecraft Live 2020 by Kenneth Shelton.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionJuly 4, 2017
Lessons in Good Trouble is added to the Marketplace.October 16, 2024
Lessons in Good Trouble is updated.
Education
Minecraft Education?
Lessons in Good Trouble is released on Minecraft Education.March 8, 2023
Lessons in Good Trouble is updated.
Trivia
Missing honeycomb blocks.
In Pakistan, among the stationary NPCs is a retextured villager, with the trade of a fisherman.
Throughout London, there are many real historical posters from the time.
Despite being released after it, the Marketplace version of the map is based on a version of Village & Pillage, meaning that honeycomb blocks used in London are replaced by the Info update.
Curiously, during the USA, 50's & 60's section, trader llamas can be found on top of buildings, as well as in a valley area near the Edmund Pettus Bridge, complete with dropped leads.[needs testing]
Similarly, squids and dolphins freely spawn in the Alabama River.
Gallery
NPCs



			John Lewis



			Malala Yousafzai



			Nelson Mandela



			Martin Luther King Jr.



			Mahatma Gandhi



			Emmeline Pankhurst



			Civil Rights Activist



			Young John Lewis



			One of the Greensboro Four



			Rosa Parks



			State Trooper



			German Shepherd











			Emma



			Hannah



			Flora



			Hortense



			Charlene/Mary



			Rebecca/Jennifer



			Right Click to Continue


Promotional images



			Panorama of the map, showing BLM Plaza.



			BLM supporters.



			"One girl among many."



			Supporters of the Civil Rights movement.



			Nelson Mandela and Steve Biko.



			Dr. King in the United States.



			Dr. King beside a garden.



			Several NPCs.



			Emmeline Pankhurst beside the gates of London.



			Gandhi in India.



			John Lewis and Nelson Mandela.


Screenshots



			A framed photo of John Lewis and other activists in the info room.



			Photo of BLM Plaza in the info room.



			Bad trouble in the opening area.



			A police car using a diamond to represent a badge.



			John Lewis's activity.



			Parting into Pakistan.



			An out of bounds area in the first section.



			Malala Yousafzai's activity, in front of the school.



			Interior of the schoolhouse.



			The Pakistani/South African border.



			A street in South Africa, with visible border particles.



			A butcher shop, unreachable during normal gameplay.



			Nelson Mandela's activity, beside the statue of Steve Biko.



			Rosa Parks in the bus.



			The Woolworth store.



			Protestors on the street.



			Young John Lewis on the bridge.



			Several trader llamas above the city.



			Several trader llamas below the bridge.



			Into India.



			The manor the player enters India through.



			An Indian village.



			Gandhi's activity, with plentiful allow blocks.



			Inside the structure behind Gandhi.



			Industry in London.



			A poster and skull in London.



			Street full of London gentlemen.



			A voting line in London.



			Flora near a carriage.



			Emma in front of armor.



			Hortense in a library.



			A decorated wagon.



			Mary behind the counter of a shop.


In other media



			Blurb about the map in Minecraft Annual 2022


References

 "LESSONS BY Felisa Ford, Ken Shelton, Natasha Rachell"     – Minecraft Education.

 "PORTFOLIO"   (Archive)  – https://www.thecommonpeople.tv.

 "Votes For Women"     by Hilda Dallas, 1909.

 "Lord Kitchener Wants You"     by Alfred Leete, 1914.

 "The Suffragette 1d Weekly"     by Hilda Dallas, 1914 (issued).

External links
"Black History Month"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, February 24, 2025.
Navigation