A screenshot of the first level in Minecraft Blast
Levels are the main gameplay features within Minecraft Blast and is placed within the home screen. Within each level, random assortments of differently colored blocks constantly drop into empty spaces. Some levels have less colors of blocks than others. The player can tap on a group of two or more of the same-colored blocks to break them. Levels have three different difficulties that rewards players with more or less rewards based on the difficulty. If a player fails to beat the level with the given number of moves, an "Out Of Moves" pop-up will appear asking if the players want to spend 900 emeralds to get five more moves.
Levels are played with the help of a blast table, the companion will first place down the blast table after running out of energy from doing the "Build" task (2nd task in Chapter 1). The camera will then pan into the blast table and bring the player to level 1, and the blast table will open its glowing top part.
Blockers are the main goal found within levels. Blockers are required to be destroyed or collected in order to beat a level, failing to do so within the number of moves will end the level.
If a level is beaten within the first try, a pop-up will appear explaining the "On Fire" mechanic which rewards players by giving them free boosters which are placed randomly in the level once another level is played. If a level is not beaten within the first try or if the player quits, the "On Fire" mechanic resets. The "On Fire" mechanic can have three tiers which gives different boosters.

Contents

1 List of difficulties and rewards
2 History
3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Promotional screenshots
4.2 Screenshots
4.3 Renders

5 Navigation

List of difficulties and rewards
Additional emeralds can be earned by leftover boosters after completing all goals in a level, as well as additional boosters earned by leftover moves such as fireworks and TNT, awarding 2 emeralds per booster.

Difficulty

Rewards

Normal

 100,  50+2×boosters

Hard

 200,  100+2×boosters

Super Hard

 300,  200+2×boosters

History
Minecraft Blast0.11
Added levels.
Trivia
The artwork used on the pop-up that appears after completing all 230 levels uses the birch forest concept art for the Wild Update as its background.



			The screen after completing all levels



			The pop-up artwork



			The birch forest concept art for The Wild Update



			The pop-up artwork's background overlaid on the concept art


Gallery
Promotional screenshots



			Different levels found within Minecraft Blast



			Minecraft Blast gameplay showing level 27



			Ditto



			Ditto, on level 60



			Blast the Blocks! screenshot



			Ditto



			Solve Puzzles


Screenshots



			Level 18 filled with blocks, blockers, and boosters


Renders






Navigation