This page lists all renewable resources in the game. Note that experience is not considered a "resource" on this page; only items and blocks are.

Contents

1 Base renewables
2 Hybrid renewables
3 Compound renewables

3.1 Crafting, smelting, and stonecutting only

4 Renewable only in block form
5 Vault

Base renewables

Resource

Renewable base source

Amethyst Cluster
Large Amethyst Bud
Medium Amethyst Bud
Small Amethyst Bud

 Grown from budding amethyst in amethyst geodes. Requires Silk Touch to obtain.

Armadillo Scute

 Dropped by armadillos every 5–10 minutes or when they are brushed.

Bamboo

 Grown over other bamboo.
 Dropped by pandas.
 Fishing in jungle biomes.

Basalt

 Created when lava flows over soul soil next to blue ice.

Bone

 Dropped by skeletons, strays, bogged, parched, wither skeletons, and skeleton horses.
 Dropped by all fish mobs.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Fishing.

Blaze Rod

 Dropped by blazes.

Breeze Rod

 Dropped by breezes.

Cactus Flower

 Grown on cacti.

Carrot
Potato

 Rarely dropped by zombies when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.
 Grown on farmland.

Chorus Flower

 Grown on End stone.

Coal

 Dropped by wither skeletons.

Cocoa Beans

 Grown on jungle log or jungle wood.
 Fishing in jungle biomes.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Creeper Head
Piglin Head
Skeleton Skull
Wither Skeleton Skull
Zombie Head

 Dropped by the respective mob when killed by a charged creeper.
 Wither skeletons rarely drop their skulls when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.

Blue Egg
Brown Egg
Egg

 Dropped by respective chicken variants every 5-10 minutes.
 Normal eggs are dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.

Feather

 Dropped by chickens and parrots.
 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.
 Gifted by cats.

Froglight

 Dropped when a frog eats a magma cube.

Ghast Tear

 Dropped by ghasts.

Glow Ink Sac

 Dropped by glow squids.

Goat Horn

 Dropped if a goat rams into specific blocks.

Honeycomb

 Collected from a full beehive or bee nest using shears.

Ink Sac

 Dropped by squids.
 Fishing.

Music discs:
"13"
"cat"
"blocks"
"chirp"
"far"
"mall"
"mellohi"
"stal"
"strad"
"ward"
"11"
"wait"

 Dropped by creepers when killed by a skeleton, bogged, stray, or parched.

Music Disc "Lava Chicken"

 Dropped by chicken jockeys.

Music disc "Tears"

 Dropped by ghasts when killed by a player-deflected fireball.

Nether Wart

 Grown on soul sand.

Netherrack‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

 Created when a Nether portal generates in the air.

Ominous Bottle

 Dropped by raid captains when not participating in a raid.

Phantom Membrane

 Dropped by phantoms when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.
 Gifted by cats.

Pitcher Pod
Torchflower Seeds

 Dug by a sniffer from the ground.

Prismarine Crystals
Prismarine Shard

 Dropped by guardians.

Pufferfish

 Dropped by pufferfish mobs and rarely by guardians.
 Fishing.

Rabbit Hide

 Dropped by rabbits.
 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.
 Gifted by cats.

Rabbit's Foot

 Dropped by rabbits.
 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.
 Gifted by cats.
 Dropped by camel husk jockeys.

Raw Rabbit

 Dropped by rabbits.

Raw Beef

 Dropped by cows and mooshrooms.

Raw Chicken

 Dropped by chickens.
 Gifted by cats.

Raw Mutton

 Dropped by sheep.

Raw Porkchop

 Dropped by pigs and hoglins.

Resin Clump

 Placed on pale oak log and wood when a creaking is attacked by the player.

Rotten Flesh

 Dropped by zombies, husks, drowned, zombie villagers, zombified piglins, zoglins, zombie horses, zombie nautiluses and camel husks.
 Fishing.
 Gifted by cats.

Sculk
Sculk Sensor
Sculk Vein
Sculk Shrieker

 Created when a mob that drops experience dies near a sculk catalyst. Requires Silk Touch to obtain.

Sculk Catalyst

 Dropped by wardens.

Shulker Shell

 Dropped by shulkers.

Snow

 Snow layers naturally form when it snows, or when snow golems walk in certain biomes. Require a shovel with Silk Touch to obtain.

Spider Eye

 Dropped by spiders, cave spiders, and witches.

Sweet Berries

 Collected from sweet berry bushes.

Trial Key

 Rewarded by trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

Trident

 Rarely dropped by drowned that are holding them.

Tropical Fish

 Dropped by tropical fish mobs and rarely by guardians.
 Fishing.

Wither Rose

 Dropped by mobs killed by a wither.

Hybrid renewables

Resource

Renewable base source

Renewable compound source

Arrow

 Dropped by skeletons, strays, bogged, and parched.
 Dropped by pillagers.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

 Trading with fletcher villagers.
 Gifted by fletcher villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from feathers, sticks and flint.
 Picking up a tipped arrow shot by the player or dispensers after it has been on the ground for 600 game ticks (30 seconds).
 Picking up an arrow shot by the player using a loaded crossbow dropped from pillagers or piglins. Since the crossbow is already loaded when dropped, no arrow needs to be spent to fire it.

Baked Potato
Cooked Chicken
Cooked Cod
Cooked Mutton
Cooked Porkchop
Cooked Rabbit
Cooked Salmon
Steak

 Dropped by the same mob that drops the respective uncooked item (zombies for baked potatoes‌[Java Edition  only]), if killed by fire.
 Cooked chicken and baked potatoes are rewarded by trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

 Smelting the respective uncooked item in a furnace, smoker, or on a campfire.
 Steak, cooked chicken, mutton, porkchop, and rabbit are gifted by butcher villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Steak and baked potatoes are rewarded by ominous trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

Banners

 Ominous banners are dropped by pillagers when they are a raid captain and are in a patrol or pillager outpost.

 Trading with cartographer and shepherd villagers.
 Crafting from wool and sticks.
 Using a water cauldron removes all layers of ominous banners and creates a white banner.
 Ominous banners are dropped by pillagers, vindicators and evokers when they are a raid captain and are in a raid.‌[Java Edition  only]

Beetroot Seeds

 Grown on farmland.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Bone Meal

 Dropped by all fish mobs.‌[Java Edition  only]

 Filling up a composter with renewable plants.
 Trading with wandering traders.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Crafting from bones.

Bow

 Dropped by skeletons, strays, bogged, and parched.
 Fishing.

 Trading with fletcher villagers.
 Crafting from string and sticks.

Bowl

 Dropped by turtles if killed by lightning.
 Fishing.

 Eating stew-like items. Of 4 such items, rabbit stew and suspicious stew can be renewably obtained without the need of an empty bowl first.
 Crafting from planks.

Bread

 Rewarded by trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.
 Farmer villagers may use wheat they have harvested to craft bread, which they can throw at other villagers.

 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Gifted by farmer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from wheat.

Cactus

 Grown on sand or red sand.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Chainmail Armor

 Rarely dropped by zombies, skeletons and their variants that are wearing the armor when killed by a player.

 Trading with armorer villagers.
 Gifted by armorer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]

Cobblestone
Stone

 Created when water and flowing lava meet.

 Smelting cobblestone results in stone; breaking stone with a non-Silk Touch pickaxe results in cobblestone.

Copper Armor

 Rarely dropped by zombies, skeletons, and their variants that are wearing the armor when killed by a player.

 Crafted with copper ingots.

Copper Ingot

 Rarely dropped by drowned.

 Crafted with copper nuggets.

Crossbow

 Dropped by pillagers and piglins that are holding them.

 Trading with fletcher villagers.
 Crafting from iron ingots, sticks, string and tripwire hooks.

Diamond Armor

 Rarely dropped from extremely rare zombies, skeletons and their variants that are wearing the armor when killed by a player.

 Trading with armorer villagers.​[until: Villager Trade Rebalance]

Emerald

 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.
 It is possible to gain infinite emeralds through trading without an infinite supply of anything else, using discounts from curing zombie villagers and discounts from trading; for example, 2 emeralds = 1 bookshelf from librarian = 3 books = 3 emeralds from librarian.

 Dropped by evokers and vindicators when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.
 Trading other renewable resources to villagers.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Enchanted Book (all enchantments except Soul Speed, Swift Sneak, and Wind Burst)

 Fishing.

 Trading with librarian villagers.
 Enchanting a book in an enchanting table (only non-treasure enchantments).
 Dropped by pillagers and vindicators during raids.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Ender Pearl

 Dropped by endermen.

 Trading with cleric villagers.
 Bartering.

End Stone

 End gateways generate a small floating island of End stone when an entity travels through for the entity to land on, if there are no valid locations.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

 16 blocks are generated under the edge of the exit portal when the ender dragon is respawned or killed.

Fishing Rod

 Rarely dropped by drowned that spawn holding the item.
 Fishing.

 Crafting from string and sticks.
 When a warped fungus on a stick is used to the point of zero durability, it becomes a fishing rod again.

Glass Bottle

 Dropped by witches.
 Fishing.

 Crafting from glass.
 Drinking potions, some of which can be renewably obtained without the need of an empty bottle first.
 Using a water bottle on an empty cauldron or no full water cauldron.
 Using a water bottle or splash water bottle on a dirt, coarse dirt or rooted dirt.

Glowstone Dust

 Dropped by witches.

 Breaking glowstone blocks.

Golden Armor

 Rarely dropped by piglins, zombies, skeletons and their variants that are wearing the armor when killed by a player.

 Crafting from gold ingots.

Gold Ingot

 Dropped by zombified piglins when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.

 Crafting from gold nuggets.

Gold Nugget

 Dropped by zombified piglins.

 Crafting from gold ingots.
 Smelting golden armor, axes, swords and spears.

Golden Sword
Golden Spear

 Rarely dropped by piglins and zombified piglins that spawn holding the item, when killed by a player.

 Crafting from gold ingots and sticks.

Gunpowder

 Dropped by creepers, witches, and ghasts.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Iron Armor

 Rarely dropped by zombies, skeletons and their variants that are wearing the armor, when killed by a player.

 Trading with armorer villagers.
 Rarely dropped by pillagers and vindicators in raids.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Crafting from iron ingots.
 Iron boots can be obtained through bartering.

Iron Bars

 Generated as cages around the End crystals that are regenerated when the ender dragon is respawned.

 Crafting from iron ingots.

Iron Ingot

 Dropped by iron golems.
 Rarely dropped by zombies when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.

 Crafting from iron nuggets.

Iron Spear

 Rarely dropped by zombies and husks that spawn holding the item.

 Crafting from iron ingots and sticks.

Iron Sword

 Rarely dropped by zombies and husks that spawn holding the item.

 Rarely dropped by pillagers and vindicators in raids.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Trading with weaponsmith villagers.
 Crafting from iron ingots and sticks.

Iron Tools (except hoes)

 Iron shovels are rarely dropped by zombies and husks that spawn holding the item, when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.

 Trading with toolsmith villagers.
 Crafting from iron ingots and sticks.
 Rarely dropped by pillagers and vindicators in raids.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Iron axes are gifted by weaponsmith villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Iron axes can be bought from weaponsmith villagers.

Kelp

 Grown underwater over other kelp.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Lapis Lazuli
Redstone Dust

 Redstone dust is dropped by witches.

 Trading with cleric villagers.
 Gifted by cleric villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Lapis lazuli can be bought from wandering traders.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Lead

 Dropped if the lead between wandering traders and trader llamas is broken.

 Crafting from string.

Leather

 Dropped by cows, mooshrooms, llamas, donkeys, mules, horses, and hoglins.
 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.
 Fishing.

 Bartering.
 Gifted by leatherworker villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from rabbit hide.

Leather Armor

 Rarely dropped by zombies, skeletons and their variants that are wearing the armor when killed by a player.
 Leather boots can be obtained from fishing.

 Trading with leatherworker villagers.
 Crafting from leather.

Lily Pad

 Fishing.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Magma Cream

 Dropped by magma cubes.

 Crafting from slimeballs and blaze powder.

Mangrove Propagule

 Appears on mangrove trees grown from other propagules (only propagules with age=4 drop themselves).

 Using bone meal on mangrove leaves.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Melon
Pumpkin

 Grown from melon stems and pumpkin stems, respectively.

 Pumpkins can be bought from wandering traders.
 Melons can be crafted from melon slices.

Melon Seeds
Pumpkin Seeds

 Grown on farmland.

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Crafting from melon slices and pumpkins, respectively.
 Pumpkin seeds can be sheared from pumpkins.

Milk Bucket

 Dropped by wandering traders if killed while holding the item.‌[Java Edition  only]

 Using an empty bucket on cows, mooshrooms, or goats.

Red Mushroom
Brown Mushroom

 Mushrooms slowly spread to other blocks nearby if there are less than 5 mushrooms in the area.
 Using shears on mooshrooms or bogged.
 Red mushrooms can be obtained by killing zombie horsemen.

 Breaking mushroom blocks.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Name Tag

 Fishing.

 Crafting with paper and metal nuggets.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Nautilus Shell

 Fishing.
 Rarely dropped by nautiluses.
 Dropped by drowned holding the item.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Obsidian

 Entering a Nether portal for which there is no matching exit generates a new portal of 14 obsidian blocks (18 if it generates in mid air).
 An entity traveling to the End regenerates the 5×5 obsidian platform.

 The End spikes in the End are regenerated when ender dragon is respawned.
 Created when a lava source block collides with water.
 Bartering.

Pointed Dripstone

 Can grow into stalactites and stalagmites, which result in more pointed dripstone when mined.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Poppy

 Dropped by iron golems.
 Shearing off of copper golems that have been gifted them by iron golems.

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Gifted by baby villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Using bone meal on grass blocks in certain biomes.

Potion

 Potions of Healing, Fire Resistance, Swiftness, and Water Breathing are dropped by witches if they die while drinking that potion.
 Potions of Invisibility are dropped by wandering traders if killed while holding the item.
 Potions of Regeneration and Swiftness are rewarded by trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.
 Water bottles can be obtained by fishing.

 All potions obtainable in Survival, including splash and lingering variants, can be brewed using renewable ingredients.
 Potions and splash potions of Fire Resistance can be obtained by bartering.
 Potions of Regeneration and Strength are rewarded by ominous trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

Raw Cod

 Dropped by cod, dolphins, guardians, and polar bears.
 Fishing.

 Gifted by fishermen villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]

Raw Salmon

 Dropped by salmon, polar bears, and rarely by guardians.
 Fishing.

Saddle

 Fishing.
 Dropped by striders that have the saddle on them.

 Dropped by ravagers.
 Trading with leatherworker villagers.
 Crafting from leather and iron ingots.

Saplings

 Grown into trees, which contain leaves. When leaves decay or are broken, they drop more saplings.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Seagrass

 Dropped by turtles.

 Using bone meal underwater.

Slimeball

 Dropped by slimes.
 Dropped by baby pandas when they sneeze.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Stick

 Dropped by witches.
 Fishing.

 Dropped by leaf blocks, when they decay or are broken.
 Crafting from planks or bamboo.

Stone Sword

 Dropped by wither skeletons.

 Crafting from cobblestone or blackstone and sticks.

String

 Dropped by spiders, cave spiders, cats, and striders.
 Fishing.
 Gifted by cats.

 Bartering.
 Breaking cobweb with a sword, a piston, or flowing water.

Sugar

 Dropped by witches.

 Crafting from sugar cane or honey bottles.

Sugar Cane

 Grown on sand, dirt or dirt-like blocks, adjacent to water.

 Trading with wandering traders.

Sulfur Spike

 Can grow from stalactites and stalagmites, which result in more sulfur spikes when mined.

Tipped Arrow

 Arrows of Slowness are dropped by strays.
 Arrows of Poison are dropped by bogged.
 Arrows of Weakness are dropped by parched.

 Trading with fletcher villagers. Arrows of Slow Falling can be bought only in Java Edition, while arrows of Decay only in Bedrock Edition.
 Gifted by fletcher villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from arrows and matching lingering potions.
 Tipping normal arrows in cauldrons filled with that potion.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Tripwire Hook

 Fishing.

 Crafting from iron ingots, sticks, and planks.

Twisting Vines

 Naturally grow upward when planted on the top of a block.

 Rarely created when bone meal is used on warped nylium.

Vines

 Grown on the side of any block. Must be obtained with shears.

 Generated on the sides of 2×2 jungle trees grown from jungle saplings, as well as mangrove trees grown from mangrove propagules.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Warped Fungus on a Stick

 Rarely dropped by zombified piglins that ride a strider.

 Crafting from fishing rods and warped fungus.

Weeping Vines

 Naturally grow downward when planted on the bottom of a block.

 Generated on huge crimson fungi grown using bone meal on crimson fungus.

Wheat

 Dropped by foxes that spawn holding the item.

 Breaking fully grown wheat crops.

Wheat Seeds

 Grown on farmland.

 Breaking short grass, tall grass, fern, and large fern.
 Gifted by nitwit and unemployed villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Trading with wandering traders.

Wool

 Dropped by sheep.
 Shearing sheep.

 Trading with shepherd villagers.
 Gifted by shepherd villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from string and dyes.

Compound renewables

Resource

Renewable compound source

Allium
Azure Bluet
Blue Orchid
Cornflower
Dandelion
Lily of the Valley
Orange Tulip
Oxeye Daisy
Pink Tulip
Red Tulip
White Tulip

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Using bone meal on grass blocks in certain biomes.
 Using bone meal on the respective flower generates more copies of that flower nearby.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Amethyst Shard

 Breaking amethyst clusters without Silk Touch, or with a piston.

Apple

 Rarely dropped by oak leaves and dark oak leaves, when those decay or are broken.
 Trading with farmer villagers.

Azalea
Flowering Azalea

 Grown into azalea trees using bone meal, which contain azalea leaves and flowering azalea leaves. When those decay or are broken, they drop more of respective type of azalea.
 Using bone meal on moss blocks.

Bell
Bottle o' Enchanting
Diamond Sword
Diamond Tools
Globe Banner Pattern

 Trading with various types of villagers.

Beds
Carpets
Painting

 Trading with shepherd villagers.
 Crafting from logs and wool.

Bee Nest

 Has a 5% chance to generate with a birch or oak tree from a sapling within 2 blocks of a flower.

Beetroot

 Breaking fully grown beetroot crops.

Big Dripleaf
Bush
Firefly Bush
Glow Lichen
Pale Hanging Moss
Pink Petals
Wildflowers

 Grown over other of its respective plant by using bone meal.
 Using bone meal on small dripleaves creates a big dripleaf.
 Using bone meal on grass blocks in cherry grove biome creates pink petals.
 Pale hanging moss, firefly bushes, and wildflowers can be bought from wandering traders.

Blackstone
Crying Obsidian
Enchanted Book (Soul Speed)
Gravel
Nether Quartz
Soul Sand

 Bartering.

Block of Quartz
Quartz Pillar

 Trading with mason villagers.
 Crafting from nether quartz.

Block of Stripped Bamboo
Stripped Logs
Stripped Stems
Stripped Wood
Stripped Hyphae

 Stripping the respective unstripped block.

Blue Ice
Packed Ice

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Crafting from ice.

Book

 Breaking bookshelves with a non-Silk Touch tool.
 Disenchanting renewable enchanted books.
 Gifted by librarian villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from leather and paper.

Bookshelf

 Trading with librarian villagers.
 Crafting from books and planks.

Brick

 Smelting clay balls.
 Trading with mason villagers.

Brown Mushroom Block
Mushroom Stem
Red Mushroom Block

 Using bone meal on either type of a mushroom creates a respective type of a huge mushroom, which contains mushroom blocks. These blocks require Silk Touch to obtain.

Bucket

 Drink milk.
 Crafting cake. Bucket is a milk's crafting remainder.
 Emptying a water buckets or bucket of aquatic mob.
 Crafting from iron ingots.

Bucket of Axolotl
Bucket of Cod
Bucket of Pufferfish
Bucket of Salmon
Bucket of Tropical Fish

 Using a water bucket on the respective mob, which respawns naturally.
 Bucket of cod can be bought from fisherman villagers.
 Buckets of pufferfish and tropical fish can be bought from wandering traders.

Bucket of Sulfur Cube

 Using a bucket on a large sulfur cube, which respawns naturally.

Bucket of Tadpole

 Tadpoles hatch from frogspawn block. They can then be picked up with a water bucket.

Cake

 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Crafting from milk buckets, wheat, sugar, and eggs.

Campfire

 Trading with fisherman villagers.
 Crafting from sticks, logs, and coal or charcoal.

Carved Pumpkin

 Carving out pumpkins using shears.

Charcoal

 When a campfire is broken without Silk Touch, it drops 2 charcoal.
 Smelting logs.

Chipped Anvil
Damaged Anvil

 Using up a normal anvil.

Chorus Fruit

 Dropped by chorus plant blocks.

Clay

 Mud placed above a block with pointed dripstone beneath it slowly dries out and turns into clay. Requires Silk Touch to obtain.
 Gifted by mason villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from clay balls.

Clay Ball

 Breaking clay blocks without Silk Touch.

Clock
Compass

 Trading with librarian villagers.
 Crafting from gold ingots or iron ingots, and redstone.

Closed Eyeblossom
Open Eyeblossom

 Using bone meal on grass blocks in the pale garden biome (in Java Edition, this generates the variant corresponding to the time of day; in Bedrock Edition, eyeblossom generates as closed regardless of time of day)
 Using bone meal on an eyeblossom generates more copies of that variant nearby.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
 Open eyeblossom transforms into a closed one during the day, and vice versa during the night.
 Wandering trader can sell open eyeblossoms.

Cobweb

 Generated when mobs with the Weaving effect die.

Concrete

 Water touching concrete powder turns it into concrete.

Cookie

 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Gifted by farmer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from wheat and cocoa beans.

All stages of oxidation of Copper Chest

 Created upon building a copper golem.
 Crafting from copper ingots and chests.

All stages of oxidation of Copper Golem Statue

 Created when a copper golem fully oxidizes.

Copper Nugget

 Crafting from copper ingots.
 Smelting copper armor.

Coral
Coral Fans

 Using bone meal underwater in warm ocean biomes.

Coral Blocks
Red Sand
Sand
Small Dripleaf

 Trading with wandering traders.

Crimson Fungus
Crimson Roots
Nether Sprouts
Warped Fungus
Warped Roots

 Using bone meal on nylium.

Crimson Nylium
Warped Nylium

 Using bone meal on netherrack (only renewable in Bedrock Edition) that is adjacent to nylium blocks converts the netherrack to that type of nylium.

Crimson Stem
Nether Wart Block
Shroomlight
Warped Stem
Warped Wart Block

 Parts of huge fungi grown from Nether fungi with bone meal.
 Nether wart blocks can also be crafted from Nether wart.

Dead Coral
Dead Coral Blocks
Dead Coral Fans

 Drying out coral, coral blocks, or coral fans, respectively.

Dirt

 Using a hoe on a rooted dirt or coarse dirt.
 Mining podzol, farmland or dirt paths without Silk Touch. Farmland and dirt paths‌‌[Java Edition  only] drop dirt even if broken with Silk Touch.

Dirt Path

 Using a shovel on dirt or dirt-like block. Requires Silk Touch to obtain in Bedrock Edition; unobtainable in item form in Java Edition.

Dragon's Breath

 Using a glass bottle on the ender dragon's breath.

Dried Ghast

 Bartering.
 Crafting from soul sand and ghast tears.

Dripstone Block

 Trading with mason villagers.
 Crafting from pointed dripstone.

Dyes

 All dyes can be obtained by trading with wandering traders.
 All dyes (except for green) can be crafted from flowers, cocoa beans or other dyes.
 Green dye can be smelted from cactus.
Additionally: red dye can be crafted from beetroot; blue dye from lapis lazuli; black dye from ink sac; white dye from bone meal; lime dye can be smelted from sea pickles.

Empty Map

 Trading with cartographer villagers.
 Gifted by cartographer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from paper and compasses.

Explorer Map

 Village, swamp, jungle, ocean, trial, and woodland explorer maps can be traded with cartographers.
 All explorer maps can be cloned by crafting them with empty maps.

Fern

 Using bone meal on grass blocks. Must be obtained with shears.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Fire Charge

 Bartering.
 Crafting from blaze powder, gunpowder, and coal or charcoal.

Flint

 Breaking gravel without Silk Touch.
 Trading with fletcher villagers.

Glass

 Trading with librarian villagers.
 Smelting sand.

Glazed Terracotta
Stained Terracotta

 Trading with mason villagers.
 Crafting and smelting from terracotta and dyes.

Glistering Melon Slice
Golden Carrot

 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Crafting from melon slices or carrots, and gold nuggets.
 Golden carrots are rewarded by ominous trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

Glow Berries

 Using bone meal on cave vines.

Glowstone

 Trading with cleric villagers.
 Trading with wandering traders.
 Crafting from glowstone dust.

Golden Axe

 Gifted by weaponsmith villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from gold ingots and sticks.

Golden Dandelion

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Crafting from golden nuggets and dandelion.

Grass Block
Mycelium

 Naturally spread to any nearby dirt. Requires Silk Touch to obtain.

Hanging Roots

 Using bone meal on rooted dirt.
 Tilling rooted dirt with a hoe.

Honey Bottle

 Collected from a full beehive or bee nest using glass bottles.

Ice

 Forms from water source blocks exposed under the sky in cold biomes or at high altitudes. Requires Silk Touch to obtain.

Iron Nugget

 Bartering.
 Crafting from iron ingots.
 Smelting iron armor, chainmail armor, iron tools or swords.

Item Frame

 Trading with cartographer villagers.
 Crafting from sticks and leather.

Lantern

 Trading with librarian villagers.
 Crafting from iron nuggets and torches.

Lava Bucket
Powder Snow Bucket
Water Bucket

 Using a bucket on the liquid or on a cauldron filled up with it.
 Reusable sponges may become wet from flowing water, then smelted to produce a water bucket.
 Using a bucket of tropical fish to feed an axolotl or nautilus to produce a water bucket.
 Using a bucket of pufferfish or bucket of cod to feed a nautilus to produce a water bucket.

Leather Horse Armor

 Trading with leatherworker villagers.
 Crafting from leather.

Lilac
Peony
Rose Bush
Sunflower

 Using bone meal on the respective plant drops copies of that plant.

Logs
Leaves
Mangrove Roots

 Parts of trees grown from azalea, flowering azalea, propagules, and saplings. Leaves require shears or Silk Touch to obtain.
 Logs can be bought from wandering traders.

Map

 Use a empty map.
 Cloning with empty map.

Melon Slice

 Breaking melons without Silk Touch.

Moss Block
Pale Moss Block

 Trading with wandering traders.
 Using bone meal on a moss/pale moss block converts nearby stone, dirt and similar blocks to that type of moss.

Moss Carpet
Pale Moss Carpet

 Using bone meal on the respective type of moss.
 Crafting from the respective moss blocks.
 Regular moss carpets generate on mangrove trees grown from mangrove propagules.

Mud

 Using a water bottle, splash water bottle, or lingering water bottle on dirt, coarse dirt or rooted dirt.

Muddy Mangrove Roots

 Created when a mangrove tree grows, if the tree roots intersect with nearby mud blocks.
 Crafting from mud and mangrove roots.

Mushroom Stew

 Using a bowl on a mooshroom.
 Crafting from mushrooms and bowls.

Nether Brick

 Bartering.
 Smelting netherrack (only renewable in Bedrock Edition).

Nether Star

 Dropped by the wither.

Ominous Trial Key

 Rewarded by ominous trial spawners once all mobs they spawned were killed.

Paper

 Gifted by cartographer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from sugar cane.

Pitcher Plant
Torchflower

 Grown from pitcher pods and torchflower seeds, respectively.

Podzol

 Growing a large spruce tree converts nearby moss blocks, dirt, and dirt-like blocks into podzol.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Poisonous Potato

 Rarely dropped from fully grown potato plants.

Polished Granite
Polished Diorite
Polished Andesite

 Trading with mason villagers.
 Crafting from cobblestone and Nether quartz.

Pumpkin Pie

 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Gifted by farmer villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from pumpkins, sugar, and eggs.

Rabbit Stew

 Trading with butcher villagers.
 Crafting from cooked rabbits, mushrooms, baked potatoes, carrots, and bowls.

Red Shrub​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]

 Using bone meal on existing red shrubs.

Rooted Dirt

 Growing an azalea on moss blocks, dirt, and dirt-like blocks converts them into rooted dirt.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Sea Pickle

 Using bone meal underwater on coral blocks, or on already existing sea pickles.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Shears

 Trading with shepherd villagers.
 Crafting from iron ingots.

Shelf Mushroom​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]

 Using bone meal on existing shelf mushrooms.
 Growing poplars.
 Trading with wandering traders.

Short Dry Grass
Tall Dry Grass

 Using bone meal on short dry grass turns it into tall dry grass; using bone meal on tall dry grass creates short dry grass nearby.

Short Grass

 Using bone meal on grass blocks, moss blocks or pale moss blocks. Must be obtained with shears.

Sniffer Egg

 Breeding sniffers with torchflower seeds.

Snowball

 Dropped by snow golems.
 Breaking snow or snow blocks with a non-Silk Touch shovel.

Snow Block

 Crafting from snowballs.
 Stacking 8 layers of snow on top of each other drops a snow block when a shovel with Silk Touch is used to break it.

Soul Soil

 Breaking soul campfires without Silk Touch.

Spectral Arrow‌[Java Edition  only]

 Bartering.
 Crafting from glowstone dust and arrows.

Stone Tools

 Trading with toolsmith villagers.
 Gifted by toolsmith villagers once the player gains Hero of the Village.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Stone axes are gifted by weaponsmith villagers, too.‌[Java Edition  only]
 Crafting from cobblestone or blackstone and sticks.

Suspicious Stew

 Using a bowl on a brown mooshroom.
 Trading with farmer villagers.
 Crafting from mushrooms, flowers, and bowls.

Torch

 Generated at the exit portal whenever the ender dragon dies.
 Crafting from coal or charcoal and sticks.

Totem of Undying

 Dropped by evokers that spawn in raids.

Turtle Egg

 Breeding turtles with seagrass. Placed as a block in the world; requires Silk Touch to obtain.

Turtle Scute

 Dropped by baby turtles (hatched from turtle eggs) when they grow up.

All stages of oxidation of:

Waxed Block of Copper
Waxed Chiseled Copper
Waxed Copper Bars
Waxed Copper Bulb
Waxed Copper Chain
Waxed Copper Chest
Waxed Copper Door
Waxed Copper Golem Statue
Waxed Copper Grate
Waxed Copper Lantern
Waxed Copper Trapdoor
Waxed Cut Copper
Waxed Cut Copper Slab
Waxed Cut Copper Stairs
Waxed Lightning Rod

 Using a honeycomb on the respective unwaxed block.
 Crafting from honeycomb and the respective unwaxed block.

Written Book

 Signing books and quills.

Crafting, smelting, and stonecutting only

Resource

Renewable ingredients

Anvil
Block of Iron
Cauldron
Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate
Iron Chain
Iron Door
Iron Trapdoor
Minecart

Iron Ingot

Bamboo Mosaic
Barrel
Block of Bamboo
Boats

Chest
Chiseled Bookshelf
Composter
Crafting Table
Fence Gates
Hyphae
Ladder
Planks
Shelves
Signs
Wood
Wooden Buttons
Wooden Doors
Wooden Fences
Wooden Pressure Plates
Wooden Sword
Wooden Spear
Wooden Tools
Wooden Trapdoors
All slabs and stairs that can be made from mentioned blocks

Logs, Stem, or Bamboo

All stages of oxidation of:
Block of Copper
Chiseled Copper
Copper Bars
Copper Chain
Copper Door
Copper Grate
Copper Trapdoor
Cut Copper
Cut Copper Slab
Cut Copper Stairs
Lightning Rod

Copper Ingot

Block of Gold
Light Weighted Pressure Plate

Gold Ingot

Block of Resin
Chiseled Resin Bricks
Resin Brick
Resin Bricks
Resin Brick Slab
Resin Brick Stairs
Resin Brick Wall

Resin Clump

Bricks
Brick Slab
Brick Stairs
Brick Wall
Sherdless Decorated Pot
Flower Pot
Terracotta

Clay Ball

Chiseled Nether Bricks
Nether Bricks
Nether Brick Fence
Nether Brick Slab
Nether Brick Stairs
Nether Brick Wall

Nether Brick

Chiseled Quartz Block
Quartz Bricks
Quartz Slab
Quartz Stairs
Smooth Quartz Block
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Block of Quartz

Chiseled Polished Blackstone
Chiseled Stone Bricks
Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
Cracked Stone Bricks
Furnace
Polished Blackstone
Polished Blackstone Bricks
Polished Blackstone Button
Polished Blackstone Pressure Plate
Smooth Stone
Stone Bricks
Stone Button
Stone Pressure Plate
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Blackstone or Cobblestone

Chiseled Red Sandstone
Chiseled Sandstone
Cut Red Sandstone
Cut Sandstone
Red Sandstone
Sandstone
Smooth Red Sandstone
Smooth Sandstone
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Red Sand or Sand

Dried Kelp
Dried Kelp Block

Kelp

End Stone Bricks
End Stone Brick Slab
End Stone Brick Stairs

End Stone

Polished Basalt
Smooth Basalt

Basalt

Popped Chorus Fruit
Purpur Block
Purpur Pillar
Purpur Slab
Purpur Stairs

Chorus Fruit

Prismarine
Prismarine Bricks
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Prismarine Shard

Sulfur
Polished Sulfur
Sulfur Bricks
Potent Sulfur
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Sulfur Spike

Hay Bale
Straw Bed​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]

Wheat

Cushion​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]
Wool Slab​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]
Wool Stairs​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]

Wool

Concrete Slab​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]
Concrete Stairs​[upcoming: JE 26.3 & BE 26.50]

Concrete

Other items/blocks manufactured from a single resource:

Blaze Powder
Block of Amethyst
Block of Coal
Block of Emerald
Block of Lapis Lazuli
Block of Redstone
Bone Block
Honey Block
Honeycomb Block
Glass Pane
Leaf Litter
Magma Block
Slime Block
Turtle Shell
Wind Charge
Wolf Armor

Andesite
Diorite
Granite
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Cobblestone + Nether Quartz

Armor Stand
Grindstone
Lever
Smoker
Stone Spear

Cobblestone + Logs

Banner Patterns: "Creeper", "Flower", "Skull", "Bordure Indented", "Field Masoned"

Paper, Creeper Head for banner pattern "Creeper", Oxeye Daisy for banner pattern "Flower", Wither Skeleton Skull for banner pattern "Skull", Vines for banner pattern "Bordure Indented", and Bricks for banner pattern "Field Masoned".

Blast Furnace
Lodestone
Minecart with Furnace‌[Java Edition  only]
Stonecutter

Cobblestone + Iron Ingot

Copper Sword
Copper Spear
Copper Tools
Copper Torch
All stages of oxidation of Copper Lantern

Copper Ingot + Logs

Dark Prismarine
Dark Prismarine Slab
Dark Prismarine Stairs

Black Dye + Prismarine Shard

Golden Hoe
Golden Pickaxe
Golden Shovel

Gold Ingot + Stick

Hopper
Iron Hoe
Minecart with Chest
Minecart with Hopper
Rail
Shield
Smithing Table
Trapped Chest

Iron Ingot + Logs

Mossy Cobblestone
Mossy Stone Bricks
All slabs, stairs, and walls that can be made from mentioned blocks

Cobblestone + Moss Block or vines

Mud Bricks
Mud Brick Slab
Mud Brick Stairs
Mud Brick Wall
Packed Mud

Mud + Wheat

Note Block
Redstone Torch

Logs + Redstone Dust

Red Nether Bricks
Red Nether Brick Slab
Red Nether Brick Stairs
Red Nether Brick Wall

Nether Brick + Nether Wart

Soul Campfire
Soul Torch

Logs + Soul Sand

Other items/blocks manufactured from two resources:

Beehive
Beetroot Soup
Brewing Stand
Default Bundle
Calibrated Sculk Sensor
Default Candle
Carrot on a Stick
Cartography Table
Coarse Dirt
Creaking Heart
Dropper
End Rod
Eye of Ender
Starless Firework Rocket
Simple Firework Star
Fletching Table
Flint and Steel
Glow Item Frame
Golden Apple
Hanging Signs
Jack o'Lantern
Lectern
Loom
Redstone Lamp
Respawn Anchor
Sea Lantern
Scaffolding
Default Shulker Box
Spyglass
Stained Glass
Stained Glass Panes
Target
Tinted Glass
TNT

Items/blocks manufactured from three resources and more:

Activator Rail
Beacon
Book and Quill
Brush
Dyed Bundles
Dyed Candles
Concrete Powder
Copper Bulb
Crafter
Daylight Detector
Detector Rail
Dispenser
End Crystal
Ender Chest
Fermented Spider Eye
Firework Rocket (without trail effect)
Firework Star (without trail effect)
Harnesses
Minecart with TNT
Observer
Piston
Powered Rail
Redstone Comparator
Redstone Repeater
Dyed Shulker Boxes
Soul Lantern
Sticky Piston

Renewable only in block form
These blocks can be created indefinitely, but either can't be obtained in item form (e.g. water), or can be obtained only non-renewably (e.g. large fern).

Resource

Renewable source

Air

Created by destroying any other block.

Bedrock

 The bedrock of the exit portal regenerates when the ender dragon is killed or respawned.

Bubble Column

 Water source blocks transform to bubble columns if there is soul sand or a magma block beneath them.

Chorus Plant block

 Parts of chorus plants, grown from chorus flowers.

Dirt Path‌[Java Edition  only]

  Using any type of shovel on the side or top of dirt, grass block, coarse dirt, mycelium, podzol, or rooted dirt that has air above it. In Bedrock Edition dirt path is renewable as an item.

Farmland

 Using a hoe on dirt, podzol, grass blocks, mycelium, or dirt path.

Fire
Soul Fire

 Using flint and steel or fire charges on blocks, a ghast's fireball or blaze's small fireball hitting blocks, lightning strikes, lava igniting blocks, or natural fire spread. Soul fire generates only on soul sand and soul soil.

Frogspawn

 Breeding frogs with slimeballs.

Frosted Ice

 Created when an entity with boots enchanted with Frost Walker walks near water.

Infested Chiseled Stone Bricks
Infested Cobblestone
Infested Cracked Stone Bricks
Infested Mossy Stone Bricks
Infested Stone
Infested Stone Bricks

 Created when a silverfish enters chiseled stone bricks, cobblestone, cracked stone bricks, mossy stone bricks, stone, or stone bricks, respectively.

Large Fern
Tall Grass
Tall Seagrass

 Using bone meal on ferns, short grass, and seagrass, respectively.
 Tall grass can also be created by using bone meal on grass blocks, moss blocks, and pale moss blocks.
 Tall seagrass can also be created by using bone meal underwater.

Lava

 Placing lava buckets.
 In Java Edition, if the game rule lavaSourceConversion is true, a lava source block is created from a flowing block that is horizontally adjacent to two or more other source blocks, and sitting on top of a solid block or another lava source block.

Lava Cauldron

 A lava source block above a stalactite creates additional lava source blocks in a cauldron beneath it.
 A lava bucket can be used on a cauldron.

Nether Portal

 Lighting up an obsidian frame with fire.

Powder Snow

 Placing powder snow buckets.

Powder Snow Cauldron

 A cauldron fills up with powder snow when it is snowing.
 A powder snow bucket can be used on a cauldron.

Water

 If the game rule waterSourceConversion is true‌[JE  only], or always in Bedrock Edition, a water source block is created from a flowing block that is horizontally adjacent to two or more other source blocks, and sitting on top of a solid block or another water source block.
 Placing down water buckets or buckets of mob.

Water Cauldron

 A waterlogged block‌ ‌[Java Edition  only] or water source block above a stalactite creates additional water source blocks in a cauldron beneath it.
 A cauldron fills up with water when it is raining.
 A powder snow cauldron, with level 2 or 3, will transform into a water cauldron, with a level 2 or 1 respectively, when a flaming entity enters it.
 A water bucket or water bottle can be used on a cauldron.

Cake with Candle
Cake with Dyed Candle

 Placing a candle or dyed candle in a cake.

All Potted Flowers
All Potted Saplings
Potted Fern
Potted Cactus
Potted Bamboo
All Potted Azaleas
Potted Mangrove Propagule
Potted Crimson Roots
Potted Warped Roots
All Potted Mushrooms
All Potted Nether Fungi
All Potted Eyeblossoms

 Using a one-block-high flower, sapling, fern, cactus, bamboo, azalea, mangrove propagule, warped roots, crimson roots, mushroom, or Nether fungi on a flower pot, respectively.
 Potted open eyeblossom transforms into a potted closed eyeblossom one during the day, and vice versa during the night.

All Wall Hanging Signs
All Wall Signs
All Wall Banners
All Coral Wall Fans
All Dead Coral Wall Fans
All Wall Torches
All Mob Wall Heads

Placing a hanging sign, sign, banner, coral fan, dead coral fan, torch (included redstone torch, soul torch and copper torch) or head (except player head) on the side of other block.

All Standing Sign
Standing Banner

Placing a sign or banner on the top of other block.

Bamboo Shoot

Placing a bamboo on any block where it can be planted, except in other bamboo or bamboo shoot.

Big Dripleaf Stem
Cave Vines Plant
Kelp Plant
Twisting Vines Plant
Weeping Vines Plant

 Using a bone meal in a the same block or in the non-stem/plant variant, except for cave vines plant.
 Placing a non-stem/plant variant block on top of itself, or on below for cave vines and weeping vines. For the cave vines, use glow berries.

Piston Head
Sticky Piston Head
Moving Piston

 Powering the piston or sticky piston. When the piston is extending, it generates moving piston. When the piston is extended, it generates piston head or stick piston head.
 Powering off the piston or sticky piston. When the piston is withdrawing, it generates moving piston.

Attached Melon Stem
Attached Pumpkin Stem

 When a melon/pumpkin grows, the stem becomes an attached stem.

Double Slabs (except petrified oak double slab)

 Place a slab above or below another slab of the same type in the same block.

Unpowered Repeater
Powered Repeater
Unpowered Comparator
Powered Comparator

 Place the redstone repeater or redstone comparator on top of the block.
 By default, they will be unpowered, but they can be powered depending on other redstone components. See the respective item articles for details on how to powered them.

Unlit Redstone Torch

 Strongly powering the block to which the redstone torch is connected.
 If the redstone torch was place on a (sticky) piston, it turns off when the piston is extended,

Inverted Daylight Detector

Using a daylight detector

Lit Furnace
Lit Smoker
Lit Blast Furnace
Lit Redstone Lamp

 Smelting in the furnace, smoker, or blast furnace, respectively.
 Powering the redstone lamp.

Cave Vines Body With Berries
Cave Vines Head With Berries

 Using bone meal in cave vines.

Beetroots
Carrots
Cave Vines
Cocoa
Melon Stem
Pitcher Crop
Potatoes
Pumpkin Stem
Redstone Wire
Sweet Berry Bush
Torchflower Crop
Tripwire
Wheat Crops

These blocks are directly associated with an item, but have a different name from the item. The items are respectively:
beetroot seeds, carrot, glow berries, cocoa beans, melon seeds, pitcher pod, potato, pumpkin seeds, redstone dust, sweet berries, torchflower seeds, string, wheat seeds.

Oak Door
Bed
Iron Door
Brewing Stand
Sugar Cane
Cauldron
Flower Pot
Hopper
Spruce Door
Birch Door
Jungle Door
Acacia Door
Dark Oak Door
Item Frame
Kelp
Campfire
Nether Sprouts
Crimson Door
Warped Door
Soul Campfire
Glow Item Frame
Mangrove Door

In Bedrock Edition, these blocks share the same identifier as the associated item, but have a different numeric ID and item ID. Except for sugar cane, whose block identifier is reeds.
In Java Edition, there is no numeric ID and item ID, only identifier. Furthermore, item frames are entities and not blocks.

 These technical blocks are only present in Java Edition. However, there is a counterpart in Bedrock Edition, but as the block state of an another block.

 These technical blocks are only present in Bedrock Edition. However, there is a counterpart in Java Edition, but as the block state of an another block.

Vault
Each vault and ominous vault keeps track of up to 128 unique players that have opened the vault. If a 129th player opens the vault, the first known player who opened the vault is forgotten, and can open the vault again. Resources listed below are renewable only through this behavior, and not by any other method.

Resource

Renewable source

Diamond

  Part of loot tables of both types of vaults.

Block of Diamond
Diamond Spear
Enchanting Table
Jukebox
Firework Rocket with trail effect
Firework Star with trail effect

 Crafting from diamonds and other renewable resources.

Bolt Armor Trim
Coast Armor Trim
Dune Armor Trim
Eye Armor Trim
Flow Armor Trim
Host Armor Trim
Netherite Upgrade‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
Raiser Armor Trim
Rib Armor Trim‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
Sentry Armor Trim
Shaper Armor Trim
Snout Armor Trim
Spire Armor Trim
Tide Armor Trim
Vex Armor Trim
Wayfinder Armor Trim
Wild Armor Trim

 Duplicating the respective template with diamonds and another renewable resource. Unlisted templates require a non-renewable resource to duplicate. Netherite upgrades and "rib" armor trims are renewable only in Bedrock Edition, as netherrack is not renewable in Java Edition.
 "Bolt" armor trims are also a part of the loot table of a vault.
 "Flow" armor trims are also a part of the loot table of an ominous vault.

Guster Banner Pattern
Music Disc "Precipice"

 Part of the loot table of a vault.

Enchanted Book (Wind Burst I)
Enchanted Golden Apple
Flow Banner Pattern
Heavy Core
Music Disc "Creator"

 Part of the loot table of an ominous vault.

Mace

 Crafting from heavy cores and breeze rods.

Thing Banner Pattern

 Crafting from enchanted golden apples and paper.

Enchanted Book (Wind Burst II-III)

 Combining lower level Wind Burst enchanted books in an anvil.