This article is about the April Fools' joke.   For the NBT tag to lock chests, see Chest § Block data.

 Not to be confused with Trapped Chest.



This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition and Legacy Console Edition. 

Locked chest




Small, Before 12w19a (1.3.1)

Large, before 12w19a (1.3.1)

13w18a (1.6.1) onward





Placed

In hand/inventory



Renewable

No

Stackable

Yes (64), when its item form existed

Tool

None

Blast resistance

0

Hardness

-1 (Beta 1.4)0 (Beta 1.4_01)

Luminous

Yes (15)

Transparent

No

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

Yes

Map color

WOOD

Note block instrument

Bass

{
    "title": "Locked chest",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64), when its item form existed",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "None",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "0",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "-1 (Beta 1.4)<br/>0 (Beta 1.4_01)(link to Category:Pages with overridden hardness article, displayed as Category:Pages with overridden hardness)",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (15)",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "WOOD",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Bass",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Locked chest",
        "[Locked chest]Locked Chest 12w19a",
        "[Locked chest]Locked Chest 12w22a",
        "[Locked chest]Locked Chest 13w01a",
        "[Locked chest]Locked Chest 13w03a",
        "[Locked chest]Missing Model JE1"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Chest JE1.png",
        "Large Chest JE1.png",
        "Locked chest LCE3.png",
        "Locked chest LCE Inventory.png"
    ]
}

The Locked chest or Steve Co. Supply Crate was a block intended to direct players to the Minecraft Store, a site created as an April Fools' Day joke.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Natural generation

2 Usage

2.1 Placement and orientation
2.2 Fuel

3 Sounds
4 Data values

4.1 ID

5 History

5.1 Java Edition

5.1.1 Unsupported texture history

5.2 Bedrock Edition
5.3 Legacy Console Edition

5.3.1 Unsupported texture history

6 Issues
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Screenshots

9 Notes
10 References
11 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
When first introduced in Beta 1.4, locked chests were indestructible except to explosions, which allowed it to drop.
From Beta 1.4_01 up until its removal, locked chests could be broken instantly with any tool or by hand.

Block

Locked chest

Hardness

0

Breaking time (secs)

Default

0.05

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

Natural generation
In Beta 1.4, if the date is April 1 of any year, the game picks a random location to generate a locked chest in every new chunk. If the chosen location is air and has a solid block below, a locked chest generates.
The server console outputs added a chest!! every time a locked chest generates.

Usage
The prompt that appears when the locked chest is used.
The locked chest's initial purpose was to direct players to the Minecraft store at the URL https://www.minecraft.net/store/loot.jsp. Clicking the use button would result in the dialog box to the left being displayed.
This functionality was exclusive to Beta 1.4; all later versions did not trigger this, and instead the block would disappear after a while, similar to leaves.[verify]

Placement and orientation
Locked chests would decide their facing direction according to the blocks around them, generally making an attempt to face outward from walls. If their face was obstructed by a block, they would rotate accordingly to face away from said block.
Prior to Beta 1.8, said behavior was standard for directional blocks such as chests and furnaces. From Beta 1.8 onward, said blocks would instead face toward the player placing them, and would not change their facing direction depending on nearby blocks. The locked chest, being an unsupported block, was not subject to this change, and retained its old behavior up until its removal, making it unique in this aspect.

Fuel
Locked chests could be used as fuel, lasting 1.5 items, the same as a regular chest.

Sounds



This section is missing information about: did unique sounds for walking, punching, etc. exist at this point in development? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Locked chests did not have any unique sounds, such as an opening sound.

v
t
e wood sound typeSoundSourceDescriptionIdentifierVolumePitchAttenuationdistanceSoundOnce the block has brokendig.wood1.00.816SoundWhen the block is placeddig.wood1.00.816SoundWhile the block is in the process of being brokenstep.wood0.250.516SoundFalling on the block with fall damagestep.wood0.50.7516SoundWalking on the blockstep.wood0.151.016
Data values
ID
NameIdentifierNumeric ID Form
Translation key Locked chestchest_locked_aprilfools_super_old_legacy_we_should_not_even_have_this95Block & Item
tile.lockedchest.name
History
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.4
    Added locked chests.

 Added large locked chests. Locked chests can join with each other to form large locked chests.

Locked chests use the models and textures of chests.

Locked chests randomly spawn in worlds if the date is set to April 1st.

They would even generate in strange locations such as on top of trees or in midair.

The server console outputted "added a chest!!" each time a chest was generated.April 1, 2011
Notch states that he planned to remove them at midnight on April 2nd, but didn't due to illness.1.4_01
Locked chests no longer naturally generate.

Locked chests have not been removed from the game entirely; instead code has been added for locked chests in the world to disappear, to avoid crashes, causing them to decay in a fashion similar to leaves. If locked chests are stored in the inventory, they remain until they are placed in the world.

Removed large locked chests.Java Edition1.7.213w37a
Locked chests have been removed as an item.

Locked chests can now be placed only with the block-placement command such as /setblock.

Locked chests have been given a dedicated namespaced alphanumeric ID for numeric ID 95: minecraft:chest_locked_aprilfools_super_old_legacy_we_should_not_even_have_this – this is currently the longest such ID in the history of Minecraft.13w41a
Added white stained glass, which has now replaced the ID of locked chest (95). As such, any existing locked chests would seamlessly convert over to stained glass upon updating to this version.

The alphanumeric ID for block 95 has been changed from chest_locked_aprilfools_super_old_legacy_we_should_not_even_have_this to stained_glass.
Unsupported texture history
Java Edition1.3.112w21a
     The original chest textures have been removed from terrain.png. As a result, the locked chest now points to texture zones occupied by the block placeholder texture. This is also the texture its particles use.12w22a
     The texture of locked chests has been changed with the addition of the block of emerald, whose texture is positioned where the chest's top/bottom previously was. This is also the texture its particles use.1.513w01a
     The texture of locked chests has been changed with the addition of the block of redstone, whose texture is positioned where the chest's side/back originally was.13w02a
Due to major texture storage changes in this version, the locked chest no longer has a valid texture, making it crash the game if rendered into view.13w03a
    The aforementioned crash has been fixed by using the missing texture for locked chests.

No particle texture is defined for the locked chest. As such, it defaults to using the texture at (0,0) on the atlas. Coincidentally, in the default textures, this is also the missing texture.1.6.113w18a
     The missing texture has been changed, which has caused the appearance of locked chest blocks to change as well.

As the missing texture is no longer 64x64, the texture atlas arrangement has shifted as a result. The texture at (0,0) is now flowing lava, and as such this is the particle locked chests use.1.7.213w38a
    Anisotropic filtering has been added as an option - enabling it changes the missing texture, and the appearance of locked chests as a result.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.1.0
Locked chests have never existed in this edition. Their numeric ID, 95, is instead used by invisible bedrock.v0.3.0
With the addition of en_US.lang in this version, locked chests were given the translation string tile.lockedchest.name=Locked chest.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch?
Added locked chests.1.66.0033.0
    Locked chests exist as of this version.

The locked chest has numeric ID 95.

Like with locked chests in Java Edition, it emits light and decays over time.

Unlike in Java Edition, it can be broken instantly.

The locked chest has no description in the inventory unlike many other items.

If dropped on the ground in a multiplayer world, all players are automatically disconnected.
Unsupported texture history
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU9??????
    Locked chests now use the placeholder texture on all horizontal sides and the emerald block texture on the top and bottom.TU12
     When placed, the locked chest now defaults to using the grass block top texture on all sides.


 In the inventory and when held, the locked chest uses the entirety of terrain.png on all sides. All animation placeholder textures excluding the second fire texture are replaced with the actual animations. The behavior seems quite inconsistent - residual cases of the purple placeholder texture appear to be present on the item in some cases but not all.
Issues
Locked chest is a removed block and was an April Fools' joke, and as such issues relating to it cannot be fixed.

Trivia
Steve Co. Supply Crate is a reference to the Mann Co. Supply Crate from Team Fortress 2, where a key must be purchased for $2.49 in the in-game shop called Mann Co. Store in order to open the crate.
Gallery
Screenshots



			A locked chest glowing at night.



			Unlike normal chests, locked chests continued to use the standard full cube from Beta 1.8 onward, as seen in this screenshot taken in 1.2.5.



			The locked chest's 12w22a-1.4.7 appearance, in placed, dropped, held and framed forms.



			The locked chest's 13w01a-13w01b appearance, in placed, dropped, held and framed forms.



			The locked chest's 13w03a-13w17a appearance, in placed, dropped, held and framed forms.



			The locked chest's 13w18a-13w39b appearance, in placed, dropped, held and framed forms.



			The added a chest!! message in the server console.


Notes

 Capitalized in this way in-game, unlike other items or blocks

References

 "Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition TU1 SECRET items - Locked Chest, Bedrock, Lit Furnace, and Still Water"  – MinecraftDigger on YouTube, February 22, 2021

 "Minecraft Xbox 360 + Xbox One Mod Map Download (Easy To Download Mods)"  – ibxtoycat on YouTube, May 6, 2013

Navigation