This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

A loot context is a set of parameters available to loot tables, predicates, item modifiers, number providers, and slot sources.
When evaluating these data types in different situations, different parameters will be available. For example, a loot table that runs when the player mines a block would get a tool parameter if the player used an item to do it, but a loot table that populates a treasure chest would never get a tool parameter. Loot contexts are identifiers describing which parameters are available in specific situations. If one is set as the [String] type of a loot table, it can be used to check whether the loot table depends on parameters that will never be available in its intended use case, allowing the game to report a problem when the data pack is loaded.

Contents

1 Loot context types and uses

1.1 Used for loot tables
1.2 Not used in loot tables

2 Navigation

Loot context types and uses
Used for loot tables
These loot context types are used for evaluating loot tables, and other data types when they appear inside of loot tables.

Loot context type

When it is used

Loot context parameters that are supplied

Loot context parameters that may be supplied

minecraft:empty

Used only by the hardcoded empty loot table. Supplies no loot context parameters.
Specifying "type":"empty" means no context parameters can be used in this loot table.

None
None

minecraft:chest

Opening of a container with loot table (can be barrel, chest, trapped chest, hopper, minecart with chest, boat with chest, minecart with hopper, dispenser, dropper, shulker box, dyed shulker box, and decorated pot).
The command /loot … loot <loot_table>.

Origin: The center of the chest.

this entity: The entity that opened the chest.

minecraft:fishing

Fishing.
The command /loot … fish <loot_table>.

Origin: The position of the fishing bobber.
Tool: The fishing rod item that the player cast

this entity: The fishing bobber.

minecraft:entity

Loot from a living entity's death.
The command /loot … kill <target>.

this entity: The entity that died.
Origin: The location of the entity's death.
Damage source: The source of the damage that caused the entity to die.

attacker entity: The entity that was the source of the final damage to the victim entity.
direct_attacker entity: The entity that directly contacted the victim entity to kill them.
attacking_player entity: The player that most recently damaged the victim entity.

minecraft:equipment

Used when equipping mobs spawned from a Monster Spawner, Minecart with Monster Spawner or Trial Spawner.

Origin: The position of the entity being spawned.
this entity: The entity being spawned.

minecraft:archaeology

Using a brush on suspicious sand or suspicious gravel that has a loot table.

Origin: The center of the suspicious block.
this entity: The entity that used the brush on the suspicious block.
Tool: The tool used for brushing.

minecraft:vault

Display of items inside of a vault.
Opening of a vault.

Origin: The center of the vault.

this entity: The entity that opened the vault. Not present for item display inside vaults.
Tool: The item used as a key.

minecraft:gift

Gift from a cat, villager or sniffer.
Item laid by a chicken.

Origin: The cat, villager or sniffer's location.
this entity: The cat, villager or sniffer that gave the gift. / The chicken that laid the item.

minecraft:barter 

Bartering with piglins.

this entity: The piglin bartered with.

minecraft:advancement_reward

Loot table set as an advancement's reward.

this entity: The player that gained the advancement.
Origin: The player's location when they gained the advancement.

minecraft:generic

Not used. Supplies all loot context parameters.
Specifying "type":"generic" or omitting it means no checking for context parameters in this loot table when loading the data pack.

N/A
N/A

minecraft:block

Loot from mining a block.
Loot from a block being exploded.
The command /loot … mine <pos>.

Block state: The block that was broken.
Origin: The center of the broken block.
Tool: The tool used to mine the block.

this entity: The player that mined the block, or the entity that caused the explosion.
Block entity: Any block entity data of the block that was broken, if it was a block entity.
Explosion radius: The radius of the explosion that broke the block, if broken via an explosion.

minecraft:shearing

Shearing a bogged, sheep, mooshroom or snow golem.

Origin: The position of the entity being sheared.
this entity: The entity being sheared.
Tool: The tool used for the interaction.

minecraft:entity_interact

Using a brush on an armadillo.

target_entity: The entity being interacted with.
Tool: The tool used for the interaction.

interacting_entity: The player or entity that interacted.

minecraft:block_interact

Harvesting a beehive, cave vines, or sweet berry bush
Carving a pumpkin.
Tilling rooted dirt.​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Block state: The block that was interacted with.
Origin: The center of the block that was interacted with.​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Block entity: Any block entity data of the block that was interacted with, if it is a block entity.
interacting_entity: The player or entity that interacted.
Tool: The tool used for the interaction.

Not used in loot tables
These loot contexts are not used to evaluate loot tables. Instead, they are used for other invocations of predicates, item modifiers, slot sources​[upcoming: JE 26.3], and number providers​[upcoming: JE 26.3].

Loot context type

When it is used

Loot context parameters that are supplied

Loot context parameters that may be supplied

minecraft:command

Used to evaluate predicates and item modifiers by commands such as /item modify or /execute (if|unless) predicate.

Origin: The position where the command is run.

this entity: The entity that is @s when the command is run.

minecraft:command_compute_default​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Used to evaluate number providers by /compute default.

Origin: The position where the command is run.

this entity: The entity that is @s when the command is run.

minecraft:command_compute_entity​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Used to evaluate number providers by /compute entity.

Origin: The position where the command is run.
target_entity: The entity passed to /compute entity.

this entity: The entity that is @s when the command is run.

minecraft:command_compute_position​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Used to evaluate number providers by /compute block.

Origin: The position where the command is run.
Block state: The current state of the block at the position passed to /compute block.

this entity: The entity that is @s when the command is run.
Block entity: The block entity of the block passed to /compute block, if it was a block entity.

minecraft:command_slot_source​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Used to evaluate slot sources by commands such as /item or /execute (if|unless) item.

Origin: The position where the command is run.
Container: The container or inventory being evaluated.

this entity: The entity that is @s when the command is run.

minecraft:selector

Used by the predicate target selector argument.

Origin: The position of the entity being checked.
this entity: The entity being checked.

minecraft:advancement_entity

Used when an advancement invokes a predicate on an entity.

this entity: The entity being checked.
Origin: The position of the player who triggers this advancement criterion.

minecraft:advancement_location

Used when an advancement invokes a predicate on the location of a block where an item was used on.

this entity: The player to gain the advancement.
Origin: The center of the block that was interacted with.
Tool: The item used to interact with the block.
Block state: The block that was interacted with.

Block entity: ​[upcoming: JE 26.3] Any block entity data of the block at the location, if it was a block entity.

minecraft:block_use

Used when an advancement invokes a predicate on default_block_use trigger.

this entity: The player to gain the advancement.
Origin: The center of the block that was interacted with.
Block state: The block that was interacted with.

minecraft:container_process​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

Used by smelting blocks and brewing stands to evaluate cooking_fuel and brewing_fuel respectively.

Origin: The center of the workstation block.
Block state: The state of the workstation block.
Block entity: The block entity data of the workstation block.
Container: The inventory of the workstation block.

minecraft:enchanted_damage

Used by enchantments invoking predicates, see Custom enchantment § Effect components

this entity: The attacked entity.
Enchantment level: The level of the enchantment currently evaluated
Origin: Position of the event ​[more information needed]
Damage source: The damage source of the attack that caused the enchantment to trigger

attacker entity: The attacking entity.
direct_attacker entity: The projectile entity used in the attack.

minecraft:enchanted_item

Tool: The item enchanted with the evaluated enchantment.
Enchantment level: The level of the enchantment currently evaluated

minecraft:enchanted_location

this entity: The attacked entity.
Enchantment level: The level of the enchantment currently evaluated
Origin: Position of the event ​[more information needed]
Enchantment active status: Whether the enchantment was already active before the current evaluation

minecraft:enchanted_entity

this entity: The attacked entity.
Enchantment level: The level of the enchantment currently evaluated
Origin: Position of the event ​[more information needed]

minecraft:hit_block

this entity: The entity that hit the block.
Enchantment level: The level of the enchantment currently evaluated
Origin: Center of the block that was hit
Block state: The block that was hit

minecraft:villager_trade

Used for evaluating villager trades.

Origin: The position of the villager or wandering trader
this entity: The villager or wandering trader.

Additional cost component allowed: Unit context. When present, causes the item modifier enchant_with_levels to generate the component additional_trade_cost on the item.

Navigation