This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

Lucky's Minigame Mayhem

Map maker(s)

Logdotzip

Price

Free

Release date

December 13, 2022
May 17, 2023

Tags

Free
Vehicles
Custom Mobs
Furniture
Dragons
Custom Creatures
New Year

Genre(s)

Minigame
Party Game

Players

Single player, Multiplayer (1-5)

Website page

Lucky's Minigame Mayhem in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"New Year’s Celebration: Lucky’s Minigame Mayhem"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Lucky's Minigame Mayhem",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Logdotzip article, displayed as Logdotzip)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* December 13, 2022\n* May 17, 2023",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "<div style=\"\" class=\"collapsible collapsed collapsetoggle-inline \">\n\n<div class=\"collapsible-content \" style=\"\">Free<br>\nVehicles<br>\nCustom Mobs<br>\nFurniture<br>\nDragons<br>\nCustom Creatures<br>\nNew Year\n</div>\n</div>",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Minigame\n* Party Game",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player, Multiplayer (1-5)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=fefbe96e-f188-4c62-9941-ed6ad850efa7 Lucky's Minigame Mayhem in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/new-year-s-celebration--lucky-s-minigame-mayhem \"New Year’s Celebration: Lucky’s Minigame Mayhem\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Key art
Lucky's Minigame Mayhem is a Marketplace map developed by YouTuber Logdotzip, based around a variety of minigames.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Dragons

1.1.1 Target Practice
1.1.2 Ring Glider
1.1.3 Sky Battle

1.2 Weapons
1.3 Furniture
1.4 Mob Morphing
1.5 TNT

2 Items

2.1 Transport
2.2 Pets

3 Golden Mobs
4 Character Creator
5 Quotes

5.1 External
5.2 Lucky
5.3 Coach Brimstone

6 Credits
7 History
8 Issues
9 Gallery

9.1 Official artwork

10 External links
11 References
12 See also
13 Navigation

Summary
The map begins with the player in an airplane, with a squirrel character ordering to jump out. Once the player jumps, the player descends using a parasol, as the title card appears. Descending down a hole in a building through a flight of stairs, the player will eventually land and meet Lucky, the owner of the theme park the map is set on. Lucky explains the situation; in order to invite guests over to the park, they will need to activate a teleporter in the center of the room, and in order to do that, the player will need to retrieve the power source, trophies, from five attractions.
Once the player is finished speaking with Lucky, a series of doors open, revealing the paths to the five areas of the map. The player is then free to explore all of them in any order, however there are several optional features and details in the hub. Outside the lime door is a poster containing the map's credits, and to the right of that another explaining that the map uses "awesome stream-safe music." Progressing from there will reveal the first golden mob, a chicken, a collectible found throughout the map.
Further still is the Pet-O-Matic, a prize machine which rewards pets using tickets earned from the minigames. Beside the machine are a set of tables, holding a pair of roller skates, which can be used to increase the player's speed. Past those is a sign linking to Logdotzip's support website, featuring a cameo from his traditional avatar.

Dragons
The section can be identified by a build of a large, red dragon breathing fire. In the hub, it sits between a birch surrounded by tulips and a stone brick flower bed with peonies and blue orchids, beside several scooters. Descending down a resin-like path, players can pass by orange tulips, and walk into a small mud brick patio with a hedge gate and umbrella table. To the right of the patio is another packed mud path, leading into a large house with an open first floor, containing scarce filled only by a set of barrels, cobwebs, and polished andesite flooring. However, a golden spider can be found underneath the stairs.. Up a flight of stairs is an atmospheric second floor, with a wooden floor, orange carpets, tables, boxes, candles, and a bed.
Returning to the orange path, more and more tulips will build up, until the player ends up at the site of the dragon's fire. There, the player can meet Coach Brimstone, a sports coach who is also a dragon. To his left is the entrance to the Target Practice minigame, in front of another large house, made up of three buildings very close together. In the yard are several rocks of clay and andesite, amongst tall trees. Inside the central building is what looks like a cellar or workshop, with an empty bookshelf, more boxes potted plants. A door beside the stairs lead to a skull on a bone block, while the stairs lead to an open bedroom with a cake.
The leftmost building is similar, with more bookshelves and lecterns immediately visible. The second floor is again a bedroom, but in a circular shape with several bookshelves, plants, and storage units. The rightmost building has a much denser interior, with potted crimson roots and crimson fungus on the first and second floors respectively. To the right of Brimstone is another small neighborhood, with the Ring Glider minigame behind a rock. The building closest to the minigame opens to a large space, with three skulls on soul sand built into a beam, seemingly evoking the Wither. Next to it are two buildings with very similar layouts and details to the others, just with other items potted, such as brown mushroom, and lily of the valley, and warped roots.
Heading straight from Brimstone leads the player under the dragon's fire, and finally to a large, smooth quartz castle structure. The road forks into three paths, two circling the castle and leading to a Pet-O-Matic before returning to the start. The right path takes the player into the castle, with white concrete powder walls and an diorite chandelier. Climbing up the stairs will lead to an area decorated with azure bluets, with two small bedrooms on the right side. On the left, there are two nonfunctional doors, two more can be found on the third floor, reached from the right. Now on a wall, the player can walk underneath the dragon itself, made out of red nether bricks. Crossing the wall will reveal the third minigame, Sky Battle, with the golden endermite at the end in a final bedroom.

Target Practice
The minigame begins in a lobby, based inside a cramped recreation of a forest with a large mangrove house and several scarecrows, similar to those found at pillager outposts. To begin the minigame players will have to speak to Coach Brimstone, who explains the goal. Players will ride on top of a large dragon, and can shoot projectiles at targets, with the goal of earning 50 points in three minutes. Wooden targets reward 1 point, golden targets reward 3, diamond targets 5, and X targets lose 1 point. Once 50 points are earned or the time runs out, the minigame will end.

Ring Glider



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

The minigame begins in a lobby, based on a series of clouds made of snow and wool. To begin the minigame players will have to speak to Coach Brimstone, who explains the goal. Players will ride on top of a large dragon and have the objective of finding and going through 15 golden rings in 5 minutes. Once the 5 minutes are up or the player flew through all the rings, the game will end.

Sky Battle



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Weapons



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Furniture



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Mob Morphing



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

TNT
Items
Transport

Name

Image

Description

Found

Red roller skates[unofficial name]

Inside hub

Blue roller skates[unofficial name]

Pink roller skates[unofficial name]

Beside TNT

Green roller skates[unofficial name]

Purple roller skates[unofficial name]

White scooter[unofficial name]

Beside Dragons

Blue scooter[unofficial name]

Mint green scooter[unofficial name]

Between Dragons and Furniture

Magenta scooter[unofficial name]

Red scooter[unofficial name]

Blue bicycle[unofficial name]

Between TNT and Mob Morphing

Purple bicycle[unofficial name]

Green bicycle[unofficial name]

Teal bicycle[unofficial name]

Red bicycle[unofficial name]

Pets

Name

Image

Description

Price

Item

Render

Empty Pet Capsule

Use this capsule to catch a pet

1 ticket

Spawn Flyra

Use this capsule to spawn this pet

10 tickets

Spawn Cubleo

Spawn Kleptar

Spawn Slitherwing

Spawn Floramin

Spawn Snowtail

Spawn Jellybud

Spawn Skorpinch

Spawn Bellhop

Spawn Dillowheel

Spawn Fungufren

Spawn Kampos

Golden Mobs

Name

Image

Location

Golden Blaze

Inside the Dragons red dragon statue's mouth, reachable by climbing the fire.

Golden Chicken

Inside the lobby in the hallway between the green and orange doors.

Golden Endermite

Inside a master bedroom on the top floor of the Dragons castle on the left, accessible by going across the bridge.

Golden Husk

On a sandcastle on a beach behind and to the left of the castles in Dragons

Golden Cave Spider

Inside the house on the bottom floor behind a wall on the road to Dragons

Golden Cow

Inside of the grill in the Furniture area

Golden Phantom

On top of the cover of the grill in the Furniture area

Golden Zombie Horse

Under the umbrella next to Mirror Match in the Furniture area

Golden Slime

Floating in the air next to the fountain. Obtained by jumping off the fountain onto the slime blocks

Golden Ocelot

On the fence by Sasha Says. Obtained by jumping off the back of the lawn chair and onto the fence.

Character Creator
Main article: Character Creator

Name

Image

Rarity

Creator

Price

Icon

Animation

Designer Glasses

Uncommon

Minecraft

Free

Lucky's Hat

Skydiver Helmet

Quotes
External
“You’re invited to the Marketplace Extravaganza! Unique dragons, custom weapons, never before seen TNT... Morph into mobs like the Warden! Master the art of furniture design! Bring your friends to this mini game celebration that showcases the diversity of Minecraft!„ — Marketplace description
Lucky
“Hello there! Welcome to our little land of dreams. Seems you've made it here safely. As you know, it is nearly the new year and this old device in the center needs to be activated so players from far and wide can join the celebration. For this, we need you to gather the trophies from our 5 main attractions!
Outside, you'll find these attractions around this central building: Dragons, Weapons, Furniture, Mob Morphing and TNT! Each of these has three events that need to be completed to fire up this old device. So you, my friend, much locate the teleporters out there and travel to these challenges to win the trophies!

But you are not alone. No no no. My fellow hosts are waiting for you to complete their  events. Once you do, trophies will be awarded and the device will become... awakened! So, to recap: 5 attractions, 3 events each, find the teleporters! Daunting? Not for you. Are you ready to open the doors?„ — Lucky
Coach Brimstone
“Hey kiddo, come fall in line. You're here to help set up, right? Well, the name's Coach Brimstone and you're on the team now. Today, Team One is you, and any teammates you're bringing. And Team Two is the 3 dragon events I need you to complete. So go find them teleporters and show me what you're made of!„ — Introduction“Time to show them targets who's boss again. Remember kiddo, for this event, you'll get a dragon. You ride it and use interact to shoot the targets before the time runs out. Don't hit them X targets. Score high enough, prize is tickets for the Pet-O-Matic. You got this!„ — Target Practice“Listen, sport, it's time for some flying! I don't mean that airplane nonsense. This is real flying! So get in there. Mount that dragon and hit the skies. All you gotta do is ride the beast and jump to gain altitude. To win, fly that dragon right into those floating golden rings. It's all up to you now, kiddo!„ — Ring Glider
Credits



This section is missing information about: Verify identifies and names 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Executive Producers
Tyler Pappas
Sundown Story Noah Vaquez
Voice acting

Greg Gidney as Nitro
Gaelle Gosselin as Sasha Lupe
Tyler Gotch as Lucky
Addison Locke as Dizzy
Aretha Smith as Fangora
Jon Wilkins as Coach Brimstone
Keith Yazici as Eddie
Builders

Colton Biggs
Dutty
Jermsyboy
Pivvot
Melanie Singleton
Programming

Caleb Coldiron
Crazycowmm
Zack Cool
Mihro
Qmagnet
Josiah Padula
Piffleknob Sparks
Ilija Stanojevic
Art

Armyfrog
Fareskoura
Joeydez Rocketbbm
Thellynx
Themagicalcalberry
Sound/Music
Dan Desimone
Writing
Miguel Silan
Graphic Design
Rachel Loper

History
Bedrock EditionDecember 13, 2022
Lucky's Minigame Mayhem is released.May 17, 2023
Lucky's Minigame Mayhem is rereleased.
Issues
Issues relating to "Lucky's Minigame Mayhem" are maintained on Logdotzip Games. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Official artwork



			Lucky on artwork for the 2022 New Years Celebration.


External links
"Lucky’s Minigame Mayhem"     – Logdotzip Games.
References

See also
Caves & Cliffs Explorers, another map featuring Logdotzip
Navigation