This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.





This article needs cleanup to comply with the style guide. [discuss]
Please help improve this page. The talk page may contain suggestions.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Add renders of skins, items, and ghosts

Pac-Man

Map maker(s)

Gamemode One

Price

 1,340 Minecoins

Release date

May 18, 2020

Tags

Ghost
Classic
Addictive
Destruction

Genre(s)

Minigame
Arcade

Players

Single player, Multiplayer (1-4)

Website page

PAC-MAN in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Happy 40th birthday, PAC-MAN!"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Pac-Man",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Gamemode One",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 1,340 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 18, 2020",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Ghost\n* Classic\n* Addictive\n* Destruction",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Minigame\n*Arcade",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player, Multiplayer (1-4)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=366e895b-d090-4151-a83a-e86c6b339732 PAC-MAN in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/happy-40th-birthday--pac-man- \"Happy 40th birthday, PAC-MAN!\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "PAC-MAN screenshot 1.jpg"
    ]
}
Key art
Pac-Man is a  Marketplace map developed by Gamemode One that crosses over with the popular Pac-Man video game franchise, featuring many characters from across its history.

Contents

1 Arcade Machine

1.1 Mazes
1.2 Ghosts
1.3 Items & Blocks

2 Hub Area

2.1 Experience Energizer Extractor
2.2 Maze Editor
2.3 Pac-Man Picker
2.4 Pac-Man World

3 Quotes

3.1 External
3.2 Internal

3.2.1 Toasts

4 History
5 Videos
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Official artwork
7.2 Promotional images

8 References
9 External links
10 Navigation

Arcade Machine
The Arcade Machine is the primary focus of the world, being an adaptation of a traditional Pac-Man game. In order to start a game, the player will need to interact with a literal arcade machine, cycling through the selection of mazes by hitting and using to select it.

Mazes

Name
Image
Description
Unlocked

Tutorial
File:Tutorial Maze screen.png
The classic, commonplace map first introduced in the original Pac-Man, where players can experiment with the mechanics and learn the ropes without risk of dying.
Open by default.

Maze 1
File:Maze 1 screen.png
The same as the tutorial maze, however with finite lives.
Unlocked after beating the tutorial.

Maze 2
File:Maze 2 screen.png
An easier maze with the energizers in the corners and a ghost house with four exits.
Unlocked after beating Maze 1

Maze 3
File:Maze 3 screen.png
A ghost-shaped maze with all four energizers in one spot.
Unlocked after beating Maze 2

Maze 4
File:Maze 4 screen.png
This maze has a symmetrical style pattern following the same "Complex Pattern" as the other mazes.
Unlocked after beating Maze 3

Maze 5
File:Maze 5 screen.png
A simple maze in the shape of a grid with the ghost house at the bottom and 1 energizer in the center block.
Unlocked after beating Maze 4

Maze 6
File:Maze 6 screen.png
This maze has a spiral effect with multiple dead ends as well.
Unlocked after beating Maze 5

Maze 7
File:Maze 7 screen.png
Like most others, the ghost house is in the center, and is also symmetrical.
Unlocked after beating Maze 6

Maze 8
File:Maze 8 screen.png
This maze has multiple small shapes made of the maze walls somewhat close together.
Unlocked after beating Maze 7

Maze 9
File:Maze 9 screen.png
Similar to Maze 8 there's multiple small shapes made of the walls and retains the complexity of the other mazes alongside the 4 energizers being trapped in the corners.
Unlocked after beating Maze 8

Maze 10
File:Maze 10 screen.png
The Most complex maze with insane shapes and paths to navigate.
Unlocked after beating Maze 9

Ghosts

Name
Image
Description
Notes

Blinky
File:Blinky render.png
The most aggressive chaser. He targets Pac-Man's exact location and follows him relentlessly.
Blinky has a permanent aggressive expression as if he's angry at Pac-Man.

Pinky
File:Pinky render.png
The ambusher. She targets a point four blocks in front of the direction Pac-Man is currently facing attempting to get ahead of the player to cut them off.
Pinky has a calm expression and lipstick, because she's the only female ghost.

Inky
File:Inky render.png
The unpredictable tactician. His movement is calculated using a vector between Blinky's position and a point in front of Pac-Man, making him harder to predict without tracking Bliny as well.
Inky has an excited expression on his face and seemingly bounces up and down as he chases Pac-Man.

Clyde
File:Clyde render.png
The "feign-hearted" ghost. He chases Pac-Man if he is far away (Normally more than 8 blocks), but if he gets too close, he switches behavior to retreat towads his "home corner."
Clyde seems to be more relaxed and controlled compared to the other ghosts.

Creepy
File:Creepy render.png
Creepy will generate periodically[needs testing] and will explode when in close proximity to the player, destroying walls.
Original ghost unique to this map, based off of a creeper.

Items & Blocks
 PAC-AXE
Allows the player to break blocks, including walls and Pacores.
File:Pacore render.png Pacore
Found inside maze walls, and when mined it grants the player 1000 points. It takes some time to mine.
File:Pac-Man Key.png Key
Found when breaking walls, and they are used to open doors in the hedge maze in Pac-Man World.
Bonus Fruit
They double the points given and come in a variety:
Cherry, Apple, Mango, Banana, Watermelon, Orange, Grape, Strawberry & Pear: Multiply the points given by eating pellets and heals stamina.
Warp Fruit: Teleports you to a random area.
Golden Apple: Gives you an extra life.
Slop: Grants a random effect.
Hub Area
Experience Energizer Extractor

Name
Image
Function
Unlocked

Power Pellet
File:Power Pellet render.png
Turns the ghosts blue, causing them to flee and become edible to Pac-Man.
Available by default

Flash Freeze
File:Flash Freeze render.png
Freezes the ghosts in place, making them easier to eat.
1,000 points

Sizzling Storm
File:Sizzling Storm render.png
Any ghosts that get too close get struck with lightning, turning into an ash pile.
5,000 points

Terrifying TNT
File:Terrifying TNT render.png
Any ghosts that are eaten will explode, breaking any nearby blocks and defeating any nearby ghosts.
10,000 points

Taming Touch
File:Taming Touch render.png
The ghosts will equip a taming scarf when touching it, making them friendly to Pac-Man and hostile to other ghosts taming the ghost it touched.
50,000 points

Burning Beam
File:Burning Beam render.png
Fires a continuous laser beam in front of the player, burning and defeating any ghosts caught in the beam.
100,000 points

Fruity Fortune
File:Fruity Fortune render.png
Spawns a bonus fruit in the exact location where a ghost was eaten.
500,000 points

Mining Madness
File:Mining Madness render.png
Grants the ability to destroy any walls the player touches.
1,000,000 points

Maze Editor
This is an area where you can build your own maze in a 21x19 grid. And any open ends on the left and right become gateways.
You can rest your maze, or test the maze to see if it's possible to beat.

Name

Image

Descripton

Unbreakable Wall

File:Editor Unbreakable Wall render.png

A wall that cannot be broken by the PAC-AXE.

Breakable Wall

File:Editor Breakable Wall render.png

A wall that can be broken by the PAC-AXE.

Power Pellet (Energizer)

File:Editor Energizer render.png

Places an energizer in the maze.

No Pellets

File:Editor No Pellets render.png

Disables any pellets from being placed in that area.
Pellets spawn anywhere in the grid where there isn't a block.

Ghost House

File:Editor Ghost House render.png

Places the spawn point and regen station for the ghosts.

Spawn Point

File:Editor Spawn Point render.png

Places the players spawn point.

Pac-Man Picker
As opposed to having conventional skins usable outside of the map, the player must unlock several skins by exploring the map. In turn, the player can only use those skins hardcoded into the map, and can select using the Pac-Man Picker.

Name
Image
Unlocked
Notes

Pac-Man
File:Pac-Man skin render.png
Available by default
Based off of his depiction commonly associated with the 1999 3D platforming game Pac-Man World.

Miru
File:Miru skin render.png
Available by default
First appeared in the 1983 arcade game Pac & Pal, never officially localized outside of Japan.

Pac-Baby
File:Pac-Baby skin render.png
First gate to the left
First appeared in the 1982 arcade video-game/pinball hybrid game Baby Pac-Man.

Pac Jr.
File:Pac Jr. skin render.png
Second gate to the left
First appeared in the 1983 arcade game Jr. Pac-Man.

Professor Pac-Man
File:Professor Pac skin render.png
Left gate on the back of the maze
First appeared in the 1983 arcade quiz game Professor Pac-Man, going on to become a major supporting character in the franchise.

Mr. Cookie
File:Mr. Cookie skin render.png
Right gate on the back of the maze
First appeared in the 2010 party game Pac-Man Party.

Pac-Ranger
File:Pac-Ranger skin render.png
Second gate to the right
Minor character appearing in the 2002 3D platformer game Pac-Man World 2.

Super Pac-Man
File:Super Pac-Man skin render.png
First gate to the right
Form of Pac-Man first appearing in the 1982 arcade game Super Pac-Man.

Pac-Man World
Pac-Man World is a city with a hedge maze blocking access to the skins, and Pacore. This is also where Pac-Man Offices (Break Room) is located.
The hedge maze and the city also has pellets that you can eat for extra points.

Quotes
External
“The legendary arcade classic PAC-MAN comes to Minecraft! WAKA-WAKA your way through a-mazeing 3D maze madness! Compete with friends for high scores on 10 challenging stages or build your own in the maze editor. Score big points to unlock new power-ups, like the Laser or TNT. Just make sure to watch out for Inky, Pinky, Blinky, Clyde and... CREEPY?!„ — Marketplace description
Internal
Toasts
“The Experience Energizer Extractor keeps track of all the points collected! When a target is hit, a new Energizer is unlocked, which can also be equipped here!„ — Experience Energizer Extractor “Welcome to PAC-MAN WORLD! Find keys in-game to unlock different parts of the world, and discover some crazy characters.„ — PAC-MAN WORLD
History
Bedrock EditionMay 18, 2020
Pac-Man is released on the Marketplace.August 13, 2021
Fixed a bug that enabled creative mode upon creating the world.
Fixed Pac-Man not appearing on the maze roof map.
Fruits can no longer appear invisible.June 29, 2024
Pac-Man is announced to be coming to Marketplace Pass, through Minecraft Monthly.July 2, 2024
Pac-Man is released on Marketplace Pass.
Videos









Trivia
Due to ongoing legal troubles concerning the character, Ms. Pac-Man was barred from appearing in the map.
Years following the release of the map, Minecraft and Pac-Man would indirectly collaborate again, appearing as DLC in Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds.
Gallery



			Pack icon.


Official artwork



			Creepy chasing Pac-Man.



			Pac-Man during winter time.



			"Happy anniversary week to these 8-bit legends!"



			Glowing visage of the key art, used in the 2024 Summer Celebration.



			Secondary key art, used to announce the map coming to Marketplace Pass.



			Promotional artwork for Game Mode One's stall at Hal-Con.






Promotional images



			Panorama of Pac-Man World.



			Pac Jr. and Super Pac-Man in the main lobby.



			Pac-Man evading Blinky.



			Pac-Man exploring the maze in Pac-Man World.



			Energized Pac-Man approaching two ghosts.



			Pac Jr. near the Experience Energizer Extractor.


References

 "The Disappearance of Ms. Pac-Man"  – Jonii on YouTube, April 3, 2020

 "The Erasure of Ms. Pac-Man"  – Jonii on YouTube, June 4, 2025

 "Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds | Sonic x PAC-MAN Collab Trailer"  – Sonic the Hedgehog on YouTube, August 19, 2025

External links
"Minecraft x Pac-Man"     – Pac-Man Wiki.
"Pac-Man"     – gamemodeone.com.
"PAC-MAN comes to Minecraft!"     by Jack (CubicComplex)  – gamemodeone.com, 2020-08-10.
Navigation