Not to be confused with Raid.

A patrol.
A patrol (officially a pillager patrol)  is a rare, naturally-spawning group of pillagers, led by a raid captain.

Contents

1 Spawning

1.1 Conditions

1.1.1 Java Edition
1.1.2 Bedrock Edition

1.2 Summoning using commands

1.2.1 Java Edition
1.2.2 Bedrock Edition

2 Behavior

2.1 Ominous Bottles

3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Bedrock Edition
3.3 Legacy Console Edition

4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Renders
6.2 Screenshots

7 See also
8 References
9 Navigation

Spawning
Patrols spawn as a group of 1-5 pillagers in Java Edition or 2-5 pillagers in Bedrock Edition, one of which is a raid captain (referred to as a “patrol captain” in this article to avoid confusion). The patrol captain wears an ominous banner, and the other pillagers follow the captain around.
In Java Edition, patrols never spawn if /gamerule spawn_patrols is set to false. In Bedrock Edition the equivalent is /mobevent pillager_patrols_event false.

Conditions
Patrols spawn naturally after the world age reaches 100 minutes (5 in-game days), then after a delay of 10–11 minutes (13200 ticks excluded), an attempt is made to spawn a patrol with 20% chance of proceeding. After an attempt is made, the delay is reset.
Patrols can spawn both above ground and underground in any Overworld biome except mushroom fields, although patrols may wander through this biome after spawning.
Patrollers do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty and require spawn_mobs‌[JE  only] or domobspawning‌[BE  only] and spawn_monsters‌‌[JE  only] to be set to true.

Java Edition
Every time the delay is over, a random player is selected, if any are online. If this player is not in spectator mode and not within a 5 by 5 by 5 subchunk cube around a village, the spawn attempt proceeds. Patrols can spawn on the same blocks as other mobs (e.g. dirt, but not bedrock) but have different light level requirements: they require a block light level of 8 or lower. Unlike other mob spawning, pillagers from pillager patrols can spawn inside blocks with a hitbox like carpets. The block must be ignored in the heightmap MOTION_BLOCKING_NO_LEAVES, and must not be a redstone component, rails, a fluid or a full block (this only affects snow).

A visual representation of patrols' spawning conditions. Captains can spawn on dark green blocks and the "support" pillagers can spawn on any green blocks.
The game randomly selects a random location 24–48 (48 excluded) blocks along each of the X and Z axis away from the player to try to spawn the patrol's captain at the top motion-blocking block, ignoring leaves (e.g. it is possible for it to spawn under leaves). If a pillager cannot spawn at the chosen position, it gives up and does not spawn anything. If the captain can spawn, the game tries to spawn the value of localDifficulty (rounded up) more pillagers, with each pillager spawning within a 4-block radius square around the previous pillager.

Bedrock Edition
In Bedrock Edition, patrols spawn around 24–48 blocks away from the player (or more than 48 blocks away if the player is in a village). Additionally, patrols can spawn in biomes where common monsters cannot spawn such as:

River
Frozen River
Snowy Plains
Snowy Mountains
Legacy Frozen Ocean
Patrols spawn on solid blocks at light level 0–7.[verify]

Summoning using commands
Java Edition
Players can summon patrol captains and patrol members via command using NBT.
Summon patrol captain:

/summon pillager ~ ~ ~ {PatrolLeader:1b}
Summon patrol member:

/summon pillager ~ ~ ~ {Patrolling:1b}
Bedrock Edition
Players can summon patrol captains and patrol members via command using spawn event.
Summon patrol captain:

/summon pillager ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:promote_to_patrol_captain
Summon patrol member:

/summon pillager ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:spawn_as_patrol_follower
Summon unused vindicator patrol captain:

/summon vindicator ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:promote_to_patrol_captain
Behavior
Patrol looks at a villager and attracts their attention.
Patrols wander around and attack nearby players, adult villagers, wandering traders, trader llamas (including trader llamas no longer attached to a trader), snow golems‌[BE  only], and iron golems. The patrol members' heads turn to follow a player or villager-like mob who looks at them or attracts their attention. A player or villager-like mob who approaches within 10 blocks of the patrol provokes them into loading their crossbows and attacking, and pursuing if the player flees. The pursuit lasts until either of the parties dies or gets far enough away.
In Java Edition, any illagers, ravagers or witches that did not spawn with the patrol can join the patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain. Evokers and illusioners who join a patrol wander around but do not seek out targets like other members in the patrol. They still do cast spells to attack mobs, however. Witches that join the patrol assume the patrol's behavior.
If a "Johnny" vindicator joins a patrol, all patrol members assume the Johnny vindicator's aggressive behavior, attacking any non-illager mob, which includes witches and ravagers (which are not illagers in Java Edition), except baby villagers and ghasts.  This can lead to the patrol attacking their own ravager and witch patrol members if any are present.
In Bedrock Edition, when one of the patrol members is attacked, it alerts nearby patrol members within 10 blocks to attack the same target as a swarm. The attacker can be any mob and doesn't need to be a player, and the distance between attacker and patrol can be up to 64 blocks away from alerted patrol members. This means that a llama who accidentally spits on a patrol member can provoke all of the members of the patrol at once. Vindicator patrol members target and attack the player without prior provocation.
A patrol spawned by a player might not function properly; instead, causing some of the patrol members to wander around. One of the ways to fix this is to reduce the size of the patrol to around 5 members. Another way is to make the captain move, as the rest of the patrol members can move along with it and follow it around. Witches might not function properly in a patrol because they are not an illager.
Just like normal pillagers, when a patrol pillager's arrow hits another pillager, the hit pillager does not retaliate.
The patrol captain always drops an ominous banner and ominous bottle upon death.

Ominous Bottles
Main article: Ominous Bottle
When a patrol captain is killed by a player or tamed wolf, it drops 1 ominous bottle of a random level (level I-V). This drop is unaffected by Looting.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1418w45a
Added patrols, which can spawn all types of illagers (minus the evoker and illusioner) including ravagers.18w46a
Ravagers no longer spawn in patrols.

Patrols now spawn 5 illagers instead of 4.18w47a
Added the Bad Omen status effect, which is applied to players upon killing a patrol captain.

Patrols now spawn less often.18w50a
The player now gets unlimited time Bad Omen status effect when killing a patrol captain.1.14.3Pre-Release 2
Vindicators no longer spawn in patrols.

Patrols now spawn less commonly.

Patrols can now spawn in all biomes except mushroom fields and its variants.

Patrols no longer spawn if the block light level disallows monster spawning.1.15.2Pre-Release 1
Patrol spawning can now be controlled using /gamerule doPatrolSpawning.1.1620w06a
Patrols no longer spawn when the player is close to a village.1.20.5ExperimentUpdate 1.2124w13a
Patrol captains now drop ominous bottles instead of giving Bad Omen when killed.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.11.0beta 1.11.0.1
Added patrols, with slightly different mechanics.beta 1.11.0.3
Illagers that spawn from patrols now follow the patrol captain.

Patrols can now be enabled or disabled using the /mobevent command.beta 1.11.0.7
Patrols now spawn 48 blocks away or farther if the player is in a village boundary.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.9
Patrols can now spawn in all biomes except for mushroom fields and its variants.

The delay for patrols to spawn has been increased to 10-11 minutes, from 5-6 minutes.

Patrols now attack in swarms.1.14.0beta 1.14.0.2
Patrols can no longer spawn in the End and Nether.1.18.0beta 1.18.0.20
Vindicators no longer spawn in patrols.1.21.0ExperimentUpdate 1.21Preview 1.21.0.20
Patrol captains now drop Ominous Bottles instead of giving Bad Omen when killed.
Legacy Console Edition
PlayStation 4 Edition1.91
Added patrols.
Issues
Issues relating to "Patrol", "Pillager patrol", or "Illager patrol" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
The idea of pillagers appearing in patrols was decided based on wanting pillagers to not be "hidden away," giving the player a sense of life in the world outside of their personal area.
In Bedrock Edition, it is possible for patrols to spawn directly inside villages.
Although vindicator patroller and captain no longer spawn in both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition, the vindicator captain still can be still found in the game data pack and summoned via command.
Gallery
Renders



			Render of a patrol.


Screenshots



			A patrol captain riding a ravager (before 18w46a).



			A patrol looking at a nitwit villager secretly at night.


See also
Vindicator
Raid
References

 MC-306168

 Witch § Behavior

 "Meet the Pillagers"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, April 13, 2019.

Navigation