Penny

Gender

Female




Species

Human







Affiliations

Jackson Middle School



Familial relationships

Unnamed mother

Allies

Phillip



First appearance

Changes

{
    "title": "Penny",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Female",
            "label": "Gender"
        },
        {
            "field": "Human",
            "label": "Species"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Jackson Middle School article, displayed as Jackson Middle School)",
            "label": "Affiliations"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Penny's mother article, displayed as Unnamed mother)",
            "label": "Familial relationships"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Phillip article, displayed as Phillip)",
            "label": "Allies"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Changes article, displayed as Changes)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Penny.png"
    ]
}

Penny is a young girl who awakens with Minecraft powers. Between classes, she seeks help from her friend Phillip, the two taking joy in her capabilities.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Powers and abilities
4 Biography
5 Quotes
6 Gallery
7 Navigation

Appearance
Penny is a middle schooler of about average height with dark skin and black hair in a bubble ponytail. Most notably, on her forehead is an exposed grass block protruding outward. When waking up in the morning, she can be seen wearing a white T-shirt with red highlights and a circle graphic. While at school, she wears a yellow long sleeve shirt, dark navy pants conforming to her feet, and a teal backpack. Briefly, she wears a flannel trapper hat to conceal the block.

Personality
From the getgo, Penny is shown to be anxious about fitting in, immediately trying to hide the situation she finds herself in. Although wanting to remove her gift, she is very easy going, happily demonstrating her abilities and messing around with them. Evidently, she has not played Minecraft, requiring guidance from Phillip on what to do. It is heavily implied she disliked it as well, finding the art style gaudy at one point, Phillip teasing her as she finds her own way to enjoy it.

Powers and abilities
For unclear reasons, Penny possesses abilities reminiscent of mechanics from Minecraft. With a punch, she is able to convert matter into miniaturized blocks, demonstrated with a school desk turning into logs and planks. With a thought, she is able to manifest the game's UI, opening a functional inventory that contains several items. Although the inventory shown evokes survival without an offhand or recipe book, she proceeds to manifest many more items than was shown, and can craft items using the full grid of a crafting table.
Using her inventory she is able to place down blocks and use spawn eggs, bringing mobs into the real world. These all appear to spawn as adults, rather than babies. Physically, it is shown she possesses strength stronger than a player, striking down wooden objects with minimal effort. Upon death, she respawns at her own, non-Minecraft bed, none the worse for wear.

Biography
Prior to the events of the story, Penny was taught about puberty by her mother. One day, she awoke noticing one such change, but was confused when she realized it was a block. She immediately went to Phillip for help, wearing a hat to hide her block, before bringing him into a vacant classroom to explain the situation. To her surprise, he is encouraging of the occurrence, and asks her to show him what she can do. She creates an "ugly outfit," diamond armor, which amazes him, before plopping down obsidian.
Pulling out an egg, Phillip suggests throwing it, bringing a chicken into the room. Amazed, Penny decides to spawn as many mobs as she can, summoning a pig, horse, cat, sheep, and cow. As she begins to warm up to her abilities, she drops a creeper spawn egg, not recognizing its danger. Sure enough, she ends up caught in its explosion, dying. However, she manages to survive by respawning at home, quickly calling Phillip to assure him she's fine. To his surprise, she asks to play some more.

Quotes
“My mom always told me puberty would bring changes... this was not the kind of change I was expecting.„ — First line from Penny
Gallery










































Navigation