For other uses, see Piglin (disambiguation).

Piglin




Java Edition

Bedrock Edition





Java Edition

Bedrock Edition





Java Edition

Bedrock Edition







Health points

16HP × 8

Armor points

0 ()

Behavior

Neutral (adult)Passive (baby)

Mob type

Monster

Attackstrength

Melee:
Golden Sword:
In Java Edition:
Easy: 5HP
Normal: 8HP
Hard: 12HP × 6
In Bedrock Edition:
Easy: 5.5HP × 2.75
Normal: 9HP
Hard: 13.5HP × 6.75
Golden Spear: the damage depends on the velocity Minimum:
Easy: 6.5HP × 3.25
Normal: 11HP × 5.5
Hard: 16.5HP × 8.25
Unarmed:
Easy: 3.5HP × 1.75
Normal: 5HP
Hard: 7.5HP × 3.75

Ranged:
Crossbow:
In Java Edition:
Easy and Normal: 2HP to 5HP
Hard: 3HP to 5HP
In Bedrock Edition: [needs testing]

Hitbox size

Adult In Java Edition:Height: 1.95 blocksWidth: 0.6 blocks
Adult In Bedrock Edition:Height: 1.9 blocksWidth: 0.6 blocks
Baby:Height: 0.98 blocksWidth: 0.49 blocks

Speed

0.35

Spawn

Nether Wastes
Crimson Forest
Bastion Remnant

Naturalequipment

Golden Sword    (45% of adults, right hand: 95%; left hand: 5%‌[JE  only]; may be enchanted)
Crossbow    (50% of adults, right hand: 95%; left hand: 5%‌[JE  only]; may be enchanted)
Golden Spear    (5% of adults, right hand: 95%; left hand: 5%‌[JE  only]; may be enchanted)
Golden Helmet    (occasionally on adults, may be enchanted)
Golden Chestplate
(occasionally on adults, may be enchanted)

Golden Leggings    (occasionally on adults, may be enchanted)
Golden Boots    (occasionally on adults, may be enchanted)

Usable items

Gold Ingot

{
    "title": "Piglin",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "16<span class=\"hidden-alt-text\">HP</span><span class=\"nowrap mc-hearts\"><span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"1  heart\">(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)</span> × 8</span>",
            "label": "(link to Health article, displayed as Health points)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0 (<span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"0 armor points\">(link to File:Empty Armor (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=🛡)</span>)",
            "label": "(link to Armor#Natural armor article, displayed as Armor points)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Neutral (adult)<br>Passive (baby)",
            "label": "Behavior"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EntitySprite monster.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Monster|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Monster article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Monster</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob type article, displayed as Mob type)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Attack<br/>strength"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''Adult In (link to Java Edition article, displayed as ''Java Edition''):'''<br>Height: 1.95 blocks<br>Width: 0.6 blocks<br>\n'''Adult In (link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as ''Bedrock Edition''):'''<br>Height: 1.9 blocks<br>Width: 0.6 blocks<br>\n'''Baby:'''<br>Height: 0.98 blocks<br>Width: 0.49 blocks",
            "label": "(link to Hitbox article, displayed as Hitbox size)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.35",
            "label": "(link to Attribute#Movement_speed article, displayed as Speed)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BiomeSprite nether-wastes.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Nether Wastes|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Nether Wastes article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Nether Wastes</span>)</span>\n<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BiomeSprite crimson-forest.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Crimson Forest|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Crimson Forest article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Crimson Forest</span>)</span><br>\n<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EnvSprite bastion-remnant.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Bastion Remnant|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Bastion Remnant article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Bastion Remnant</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob spawning article, displayed as Spawn)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "(link to Drops#Equipped items article, displayed as Natural<br/>equipment)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*   <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:ItemSprite gold-ingot.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Gold Ingot|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Gold Ingot article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Gold Ingot</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Usable items"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Piglin Spawn Egg"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Piglin.png",
        "Piglin BE.png",
        "Piglin with Crossbow.png",
        "Piglin with Crossbow BE.png",
        "Piglin with Golden Spear JE1.png",
        "Piglin with Golden Spear BE1.png",
        "Baby Piglin JE2 BE2.png"
    ]
}

A piglin is a neutral mob found in the Nether. It is hostile to players unless they wear at least one piece of golden armor. It can be given gold ingots to barter for various items. It wields either a golden sword, a golden spear, or a crossbow and uses either melee, spear charge, or ranged attacks, respectively.
Baby piglins do not grow up, are passive, and take gold without giving anything in return.

Contents

1 Spawning
2 Drops

2.1 On death
2.2 Equipment

2.2.1 Weapons
2.2.2 Armor

2.3 Picked up equipment
2.4 Other picked up items
2.5 Experience

3 Behavior

3.1 Aggravation

3.1.1 Aggravation range
3.1.2 Light aggravation
3.1.3 Medium aggravation
3.1.4 Heavy aggravation
3.1.5 Other

3.2 Attacking

3.2.1 Using swords
3.2.2 Using crossbows
3.2.3 Using spears
3.2.4 Hostility
3.2.5 Hunting
3.2.6 Being distracted

3.3 Bartering
3.4 Picking up items

3.4.1 Equipping
3.4.2 Piglin loved items
3.4.3 Despawning

3.5 Zombification

4 Sounds
5 Data values

5.1 ID
5.2 Entity data

6 Achievements
7 Advancements
8 Videos
9 History

9.1 Concept
9.2 Announcement
9.3 Java Edition
9.4 Bedrock Edition

10 Issues
11 Trivia
12 Gallery

12.1 Renders

12.1.1 Armed

12.2 Screenshots
12.3 Mojang images
12.4 Textures
12.5 In other media

13 See also
14 Notes
15 References
16 External links
17 Navigation

Spawning
Piglins spawn in groups of 4 in nether wastes and 3-4 in crimson forest biomes at light levels of 11‌[Java Edition  only] or 7‌[Bedrock Edition  only] and below. They can spawn on most blocks other than nether wart blocks and magma blocks.
Piglins also spawn within bastion remnants upon generation.
Each piglin has a 20%‌[Java Edition  only] or 5%‌[Bedrock Edition  only] chance to spawn as a baby.
Every adult piglin spawns with a weapon: either a golden sword (45% chance), a golden spear (5% chance) or a crossbow (50% chance). Adult piglins can also spawn with golden armor, with each armor slot independently having a 10% chance to be equipped. Therefore, each piglin has a 34.39% chance to spawn with at least 1 piece of armor, and a 0.01% chance to spawn with a full set. Baby piglins never spawn with weapons or armor.
A baby piglin can also be spawned by using a piglin spawn egg on an adult piglin, similar to other mobs with a baby variant.

Piglin spawns in:Category: MonsterJava EditionBedrock EditionSpawn areaSpawn weightSpawn chanceGroup sizeSpawn weightGroup sizeCrimson Forest5⁄1533.33%3–453–4Nether Wastes15⁄1688.93%4154
Drops
On death
Java Edition:

				ItemQuantity / Chance / AverageDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head1100.00%1.001100.00%1.001100.00%1.001100.00%1.00


				ItemQuantity / Chance / AverageDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head111111111111


				ItemAmountProbabilityDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head11 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)Average1 (1.00)1 (1.00)1 (1.00)1 (1.00)


				Killed1ItemExpected DropsDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head1.001.001.001.00

 Only when killed by a charged creeper.

Bedrock Edition:

				ItemQuantity / Chance / AverageDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head1100.00%1.001100.00%1.001100.00%1.001100.00%1.00


				ItemQuantity / Chance / AverageDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head111111111111


				ItemAmountProbabilityDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head11 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)1 (100.00%)Average1 (1.00)1 (1.00)1 (1.00)1 (1.00)


				Killed1ItemExpected DropsDefaultLooting ILooting IILooting IIIPiglin Head1.001.001.001.00

 Only when killed by a charged creeper.

If a piglin is killed in one hit while admiring a gold ingot, the ingot drops. However, if the piglin is hit and not killed, the piglin stops admiring the item. This causes the item to vanish from its hands and subsequently not drop when the piglin is killed.

Equipment
Adults have an 8.5% chance of dropping each naturally held or worn  piece of equipment when killed by a player or tamed wolf. The dropped item has a random durability. Each level of Looting used to kill the piglin increases the drop chance for each piece of equipment by 1%.
Babies always spawn without equipment.

Weapons
A piglin naturally spawns with one of these weapons:

Golden Sword (45%, or 9⁄20)
Crossbow (50%, or 1⁄2)
Golden Spear (5%, or 1⁄20)
Armor
Adult piglins have a 10% chance per slot to spawn wearing any of the following armor pieces, which may additionally be enchanted:

Golden Helmet
Golden Chestplate
Golden Leggings
Golden Boots
If you give a piglin a piece of armor and then give it a golden one it will wear the golden one and take off the other one.
If you give a piglin a piece of armor enchanted with Curse of Binding then throw a piece of golden armor at it, it will take the armor and will not equip it.

Picked up equipment
Piglins always drop picked-up equipment upon death.
Piglins can pick up any type of armor or weapon, as long as the new equipment is better than the current equipment. See § Picking up items.
In Java Edition, a picked-up item can lose durability based on the amount of uses the item has withstood, however, it cannot break.
In Bedrock Edition, armor ​[more information needed] picked up by piglins can lose durability and even break (if it takes enough damage).

Other picked up items
Piglins do not drop any gold ingots, raw porkchops, or cooked porkchops that they have picked up. However, any other items they have picked up are dropped.

Experience
Adults drop 5XP, which is not affected by armor, if killed by a player or tamed wolf. Baby piglins drop 5XP‌[JE  only] or 1XP‌[BE  only].

Behavior
Piglins snort enviously while watching players holding a gold-related item.
Like villagers, piglins can open and close wooden and copper doors, but cannot open fence gates, trapdoors, or iron doors. They also cannot climb ladders.
Piglins cannot swim and can drown if submerged. Unlike zombified piglins, they are not naturally immune to fire or lava.
Idle piglins retreat from zombified piglins (except babies), zoglins, soul fire, soul torches, soul lanterns, and lit soul campfires. Piglins ignore soul fire items when pursuing the player, but still run from zombified piglins and zoglins. Baby piglins additionally retreat from wither skeletons and withers.
Crossbow piglins do not reload their crossbows when spawned, unlike pillagers. They reload only when provoked.
Baby piglins are passive and play with baby hoglins, running around and riding upon them. Up to 3 baby piglins may stack on top of each other while riding a baby hoglin.
Baby piglins can be given gold, but they do not give anything in return and run away. Baby piglins can also pick up and wear armor as well as hold gold tools or weapons. However, they are unable to pick up leather.
Unlike many other mobs, piglins cannot be spawned holding any items in their off-hand; instead, the item in question is placed into their inventory or, if applicable, their main hand or an armor slot. As a consequence, they cannot fire special ammunition from their crossbows, such as firework rockets or tipped arrows, and they cannot use a totem of undying alongside a melee weapon. If spawned with a gold ingot in their off-hand, the piglin immediately drops a random bartering good without examining the ingot.
As they are monsters, golden dandelions do not work on baby piglins.

Aggravation
Adult piglins are neutral if the player is wearing at least one piece of golden armor.
In Java Edition, the list of items that make piglins neutral can be modified in a data pack, by putting an item in the #piglin_safe_armor tag, which contains golden armor by default.
In Bedrock Edition, the list of items that make piglins neutral can be modified in a behavior pack, by putting an entity filter like this in the piglin.json file, in the alert_for_attack_targets component group, and in the minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable_target.
{ "test": "has_equipment", "subject": "other", "domain": "<any armor slot>", "operator": "not", "value": "<item>" }
This filter contains golden armor by default.
Piglins are provoked by any player who:

Is not wearing any piece of gold armor.
Short range, light aggravation
Attacks a piglin or piglin brute, regardless of whether the player kills it in one hit or not.
Long range, heavy aggravation to the damaged piglin, medium aggravation to other piglins
Opens or breaks a chest, trapped chest, copper chest, ender chest, shulker box, barrel, minecart with chest, or boat with chest.
Opening is short range, medium aggravation
Breaking is mid-range, medium aggravation
Breaks a block of gold, gold ore, gilded blackstone, nether gold ore, block of raw gold, or deepslate gold ore.
Mid-range, medium aggravation
Aggravation range
Illustration of short range aggravation of piglins. Note that this is a spherical range and that piglins behind walls are not aggravated because their line of sight is blocked.
Short range: When a piglin has been aggravated by a player not wearing gold armor, or opening a container, piglins from up to around 15 blocks centered around the player become aggravated by the player if there is a straight line of sight to the player.
Mid range: When a piglin has been aggravated by a player breaking a golden block or a container, piglins from up to 16 blocks from the player’s feet become aggravated. No line of sight is required.
Long range: When a piglin has been aggravated by a player damaging a piglin or piglin brute, piglins from up to 16 blocks from the damaged piglin (rather than the player) become aggravated. No line of sight is required.
Light aggravation
Light aggravation occurs when a piglin has been aggravated by a player not wearing gold armor.
The piglin can de-aggravate when the player puts on gold armor, distracts the piglin with gold, or the piglin loses a line of sight with the player.
Medium aggravation
Medium aggravation occurs when a piglin has been aggravated by a player opening/breaking a container or breaking a golden block, or when a piglin witnesses a piglin brute or another piglin getting damaged by a player.
Piglins under medium aggravation can be distracted with gold.
In Java Edition, a piglin already under light aggravation does not re-aggravate to medium aggravation, but in Bedrock Edition, even a piglin already under light aggravation re-aggravates to medium aggravation. This means that in Java Edition, if a piglin knows a player performed an action that causes medium aggravation near them after already going after them due to them not wearing gold armor, the player can de-aggravate that piglin by putting on gold armor or losing the line of sight even though the player performed that action.
Heavy aggravation
Heavy aggravation occurs if a piglin is damaged.
The piglin cannot be distracted by gold and is unable to barter while under heavy aggravation.
Other
A player who is under the influence of the Invisibility effect can open containers in front of piglins without aggravating them. The player, while invisible, can also break containers or gold blocks without aggravating them.
In Java Edition, a player under the Invisibility effect who is not wearing any armor can attack piglins without causing the piglins to retaliate. This is not the case with any other hostile or neutral mob because mobs attacked by an invisible player still attack the player.
Opening or breaking a hopper does not provoke piglins. Piglins do not react to the opening or breaking of other containers. Breaking a bell does not provoke them either, even though piglins admire them as gold.
When provoked, piglins remain hostile for 30 seconds.
Unlike other neutral mobs, piglins don't count towards the AngryAt tag.

Attacking
Piglins have different attacking behavior based on the weapon they are wielding.

Using swords
Piglins wielding swords and most other items rush at the player. When attacking with a sword it holds its dominant arm and sword in front of it, similarly to a vindicator.

Using crossbows
When attacking with a crossbow, piglins shoot arrows every 2 seconds. In Java Edition, they walk backward (stopping if at the edge of a drop) as soon as the target is close. In Java Edition, their crossbows can break if it runs out of durability, making the piglins use their fists, while in Bedrock Edition their crossbows never break. Unlike mobs armed with bows, they do not strafe from left to right while shooting. Also, unlike pillagers, piglins cannot fire firework rockets or special kinds of arrows, since they cannot hold them in their off-hand if spawned so. If a piglin accidentally shoots an arrow at a neutral or hostile mob (except goats), the mob retaliates and attacks that piglin.

Using spears
Piglins wielding spears use the spear's charge attack while running towards their target. They hold the charge through its full duration, using all 3 stages. Once the charge attack has ended or they get too close to their target, they move away to increase the distance between them and their target before turning around to begin another charge. Since attacking piglins run towards their target, the damage of their spear charge is increased. If a piglin accidentally damages a neutral or hostile mob (except goats) with a spear's charge attack, the mob retaliates and attacks that piglin.

Hostility
Adult piglins congregate within 16 blocks and attack in hordes. If a group of piglins successfully defeats their target, they gather at the site of their target's demise and emit "celebration sounds". However, piglins do not have a chance of dancing unless their target was a hoglin.
Adult piglins are hostile toward wither skeletons and withers.
Iron golems attack both adult and baby piglins; however, piglins do not attack iron golems without provocation.
The detection range of piglins is reduced to half of their normal range (17.5 blocks) when the player is wearing a piglin head.
Piglins also retaliate to being rammed by a goat.‌[Java Edition  only]

Hunting
Piglin celebrating dance.
Piglins sometimes attack hoglins, causing other piglins and piglin brutes‌[Bedrock Edition  only] in that area to attack the targeted hoglin as well.
Adults do not immediately attack adult hoglins on sight, but a piglin has a random chance to decide to hunt a hoglin (this decision rarely happens if the piglin recently hunted, but other piglins can still start a hunt).[verify] Once that piglin attacks the hoglin, all other piglins and piglin brutes‌[Bedrock Edition  only] in that area become hostile to the hoglin. If outnumbered by hoglins, the piglins flee, making "retreat" sounds. After defeating a hoglin (or any other entity), piglins have a 10% chance to do a "victory dance" by bobbing their heads, bodies and sticking out their arms like a T-pose.
Each piglin that sees a hoglin has a 10% chance of starting a hunt.[verify] Therefore, the more piglins there are, the larger the chance of a hunt occurring, as there are more opportunities for a hunt to begin.
After a hunt, any nearby piglins pick up the porkchops or cooked porkchops the hoglin dropped, but not the leather.
Piglins that spawned as part of a bastion remnant during world generation do not hunt.
Piglin brutes also join in hunts started by piglins, but do not start a hunt themselves.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Being distracted
Piglins briefly stop attacking when given gold items. If the player offers a gold ingot, bartering then takes place as it normally would. They resume attacking once the barter is complete. If the player distracts them with a gold item and equips a piece of gold armor while the piglin is examining the item, then the piglin ceases hostility. They may also cease hostility if distracted enough times. If the player breaks any gold-related block or hurt/kill a piglin and then distracts the piglin up to 5 times with a piece of gold armor equipped, the piglin ceases hostility entirely.

Bartering
A piglin bartering in a warped forest.
Main article: Bartering
Adult piglins take gold ingots, whether dropped nearby or when a player uses one while looking at them, and barter certain items for them. The piglin "examines" the ingot for six‌[JE  only] or eight‌[BE  only] seconds, then drops a random item from the chart. However, baby piglins examine the ingot and then run away without dropping an item. Piglins can also pick up items dropped by a dispenser or dropper. In Java Edition, the pool for what piglins can barter may be modified in a data pack.
Piglins can still barter while riding another mob.

Picking up items
Main article: Geared mobs § Picking up gear
Piglins can pick up any items they come across, except for leather, and prefer gold-related items, which they actively seek out.
Each piglin has eight hidden inventory slots in which it can stack items. A piglin with a full inventory does not attempt to pick up gold-related items, except gold ingots.

Equipping
A piglin automatically equips any armor or weapon it can pick up, as long as the new equipment is better than its current equipment. When this happens, the previously held or worn item is dropped, giving players another way to easily recover their equipment. Piglins also prefer gold over other armors.
When a piglin picks up a gold-related piece of equipment, it has to inspect the item first before equipping it. Inspecting the item takes six seconds. However, non-gold equipment, if preferable, is equipped instantly. Piglins do not pick up any items when the /gamerule mobGriefing is set to false.
Only a piglin with a crossbow can pick up crossbows.
A piglin picks up raw porkchops and cooked porkchops from 1 block, unless it has already done so within the last 10 seconds. However, a piglin does not seek out porkchops or go out of its way to collect them.

Piglin loved items
Items with the piglin_loved tag are the only items that piglins want and pick up. When a piglin picks up one of these items, the player who dropped it (if it was dropped by a player) is given the advancement "Oh Shiny"‌[Java Edition  only]/achievement "Oooh, Shiny!"‌[Bedrock Edition  only] unless the item was a gold nugget. Piglins aren't interested in other items, and can't be distracted by other items, even if the items are related to gold in some way.
Items that piglins love:

Bell
Block of Gold
Block of Raw Gold
Clock
Deepslate Gold Ore
Enchanted Golden Apple
Gilded Blackstone
Glistering Melon Slice
Gold Ingot (piglins barter something else in return)
Gold Nugget
Golden Dandelion
Gold Ore
Golden Apple
Golden Axe
Golden Boots (worn after being examined)
Golden Carrot
Golden Chestplate (worn after being examined)
Golden Helmet (worn after being examined)
Golden Hoe
Golden Horse Armor
Golden Nautilus Armor
Golden Leggings (worn after being examined)
Golden Pickaxe
Golden Shovel
Golden Spear
Golden Sword (equipped if piglin is using a non-gold weapon or crossbow, or does not already have one)
Light Weighted Pressure Plate
Nether Gold Ore
Raw Gold
Baby piglins attempt to pick up every item‌[JE  only] (except leather), regardless of whether they love it, and they admire gold ingots but do not barter any items.
Adult piglins can pick up gold nuggets, but won't inspect them for bartering.  When killed, a piglin drops all of its items, except for gold ingots, raw porkchops, and cooked porkchops.

Despawning
Piglins that spawned in a bastion remnant during world generation, and piglins that have picked up or equipped items, do not despawn naturally.

Zombification
A piglin turning into a zombified piglin.
When in the Overworld or the End, piglins transform into zombified piglins after 15 seconds, retaining their armor, their name, and any items that they are holding. However, they cannot shoot a crossbow, using it instead as a melee weapon. Upon transformation, the spawned zombified piglin has the Nausea effect for 10 seconds‌[JE  only]; this is just a cosmetic effect. When a piglin transforms into a zombified piglin, it drops anything except equipped weapons and armor in its inventory; other items in its inventory disappear.
In Java Edition, if the game is set to Peaceful difficulty, piglins are stuck in an eternal transformation state. They shake and do not barter. Upon returning to the Nether, piglins resume their normal behavior.
In Bedrock Edition, if the game is set to Peaceful difficulty, the piglin despawns instead of transforming because hostile mobs do not exist in Peaceful difficulty. A piglin that returns to the Nether before 15 seconds remains unchanged, although the 15-second portal cooldown usually prevents them from returning during that time.
A piglin does not zombify outside the Nether if its IsImmuneToZombification tag is set to true. Piglins with their NoAI tag set to true also do not zombify.
In Java Edition, if a piglin is inspecting/admiring a gold ingot or a gold-related item and then gets zombified while inspecting, it drops the gold ingot or the gold-related item. In  Bedrock Edition, the zombified piglin simply holds the ingot and has a 100.00% chance to drop it on death.
In Bedrock Edition, if a piglin is spawned with the  stop_zombification_event event, they are completely passive to the player, do not barter, do not attack any other mobs, and do not zombify.

Sounds
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Piglin snortsHostile MobsRandomlyentity.piglin.ambientsubtitles.entity.piglin.ambient​0.660.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin snorts angrilyHostile MobsRandomly while angryentity.piglin.angrysubtitles.entity.piglin.angry​0.70.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin retreatsHostile MobsWhen a piglin runs away from something feared or when being zombifiedentity.piglin.retreat​​subtitles.entity.piglin.retreat​​​0.650.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin hurtsHostile MobsWhen a piglin is damagedentity.piglin.hurtsubtitles.entity.piglin.hurt​0.70.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin diesHostile MobsWhen a piglin diesentity.piglin.deathsubtitles.entity.piglin.death​varies 0.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​FootstepsHostile MobsWhile a piglin is walkingentity.piglin.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.11251.016​Piglin celebratesHostile MobsWhen a piglin defeats a hoglinentity.piglin.celebratesubtitles.entity.piglin.celebrate​0.8 0.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin snorts enviouslyHostile MobsRandomly while a player is holding a gold item, or when a piglin is unable to pick up item from the ground because another piglin picked it up (and a player holding gold is nearby)entity.piglin.jealoussubtitles.entity.piglin.jealous​0.80.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin admires itemHostile MobsWhen a piglin sees a gold itementity.piglin.admiring_itemsubtitles.entity.piglin.admiring_item​0.8 0.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Piglin converts to Zombified PiglinHostile MobsWhen a piglin converts to a zombified piglinentity.piglin.converted_to_zombifiedsubtitles.entity.piglin.converted_to_zombified​1.00.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16
 MC-98316 – Wrong subtitles caused by missing distinction[verify]

 MC-277743

 idle1 and idle2 are 0.7; idle3 and idle4 are 0.8

 Except celebrate3, which is 0.75

 Except celebrate4, which is 0.85

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Piglin snortsHostile MobsRandomlymob.piglin.ambientsubtitles.entity.piglin.ambient​0.8 0.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin snorts angrilyHostile MobsRandomly while angrymob.piglin.angrysubtitles.entity.piglin.angry​0.70.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)NoneNone​NoneUndefined sound eventmissing.legacyrefNone​1.00.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin retreatsHostile MobsWhen a piglin runs away from something fearedmob.piglin.retreatsubtitles.entity.piglin.retreat​0.80.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin hurtsHostile MobsWhen a piglin is damagedmob.piglin.hurtsubtitles.entity.piglin.hurt​0.70.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin diesHostile MobsWhen a piglin diesmob.piglin.deathsubtitles.entity.piglin.death​varies 0.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​FootstepsHostile MobsWhile a piglin is walkingmob.piglin.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​​​0.26250.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin celebratesHostile MobsWhen a piglin defeats a hoglinmob.piglin.celebratesubtitles.entity.piglin.celebrate​0.8 0.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin snorts enviouslyHostile MobsUnused sound eventmob.piglin.jealoussubtitles.entity.piglin.jealous​0.80.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin admires itemHostile MobsWhen a piglin sees a gold itemmob.piglin.admiring_itemsubtitles.entity.piglin.admiring_item​0.8 0.8–1.2 (Baby: 1.3–1.7)​Piglin converts to Zombified PiglinHostile MobsWhen a piglin converts to a zombified piglinmob.piglin.converted_to_zombifiedsubtitles.entity.piglin.converted_to_zombified​1.00.9–1.1
 Except idle2, which is 0.75

 0.7 for death1 and death2, and 0.8 for death3 and death4

 There is an unused translation key called subtitles.entity.piglin.step, which translates to "Piglin steps".

 Except celebrate3, which is 0.75

 Except celebrate4 (the fourth sound), which is 0.85

 Empty events do not have this parameter set.

Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifier
Translation key Piglinpiglin
entity.minecraft.piglin
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID
FamilyTranslation key Piglinpiglin123
baby_piglinpiglinpiglin_huntermonstermobentity.piglin.name
Entity data
Piglins have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition:

Main article: Entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Entity data
Tags common to all entities see Template:Nbt inherit/entity/template
Tags common to all mobs see Template:Nbt inherit/mob/template
[Byte] CannotHunt: 1 or 0 (true/false) – if true, the piglin does not attack hoglins. Set to true for piglins spawned as a part of bastion remnants during world generation.
[NBT List / JSON Array] Inventory: Each compound tag in this list is an item in the piglin's inventory. It can hold a maximum of 8 items.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] An item in the inventory, excluding the Slot tag.
A single item stack see Template:Nbt inherit/itemnoslot/template
[Byte] IsBaby: 1 or 0 (true/false) – true if the piglin is a baby. May not exist.
[Byte] IsImmuneToZombification: 1 or 0 (true/false) – if true, the piglin does not transform to a zombified piglin when in the Overworld.
[Int] TimeInOverworld: The number of ticks that the piglin has existed in the Overworld; the piglin converts to a zombified piglin when this is greater than 300.

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherMonster HunterAttack and destroy a monster.
Kill one of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this achievement.15BronzeCamouflageKill a mob while wearing the same type of mob head.—30BronzeIt SpreadsKill a mob next to a catalystKill any mob that drops experience near a sculk catalyst, with the sole exception of the ender dragon. Mobs that drop no experience are ignored for this achievement.10BronzeOooh, shiny!Distract a Piglin using goldGive a piglin a gold item​[more information needed] while it is aggressive toward the player.30Silver
Achievements that apply to all mobs:

IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherOverkillDeal nine hearts of damage in a single hit.Damage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have nine hearts of health overall.30BronzeOver-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.20SilverMob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor stands and players also count for this achievement as they are technically mobs.10Bronze

Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Not Today, Thank YouDeflect a projectile with a ShieldBlock any projectile with a shield.Oh ShinyDistract Piglins with gold
Use a gold ingot on an adult piglin, or throw one of these 28 gold-related items in the #piglin_loved item tag for it to pick up:

Bell
Block of Gold
Block of Raw Gold
Clock
Deepslate Gold Ore
Enchanted Golden Apple
Gilded Blackstone
Glistering Melon Slice
Gold Ingot
Gold Ore
Golden Apple
Golden Axe
Golden Boots
Golden Carrot
Golden Chestplate
Golden Dandelion
Golden Helmet
Golden Hoe
Golden Horse Armor
Golden Leggings
Golden Nautilus Armor
Golden Pickaxe
Golden Shovel
Golden Spear
Golden Sword
Light Weighted Pressure Plate
Nether Gold Ore
Raw Gold

The player must not be wearing any golden armor when the piglin accepts or picks up the item.Monster HunterKill any hostile monster
Kill one of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this advancement.It SpreadsKill a mob near a Sculk CatalystKill any mob that drops experience near a sculk catalyst, with the sole exception of the ender dragon. Mobs that drop no experience are ignored for this advancement.Monsters HuntedKill one of every hostile monster
Kill each of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this advancement.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:

IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)AdventureAdventure, exploration and combatKill any mob, or be killed by any living entity.A Throwaway JokeThrow a Trident at something.Note: Throwing away your only weapon is not a good idea.Hit a mob with a thrown trident.Take AimShoot something with an ArrowUsing a bow or a crossbow, shoot a mob with an arrow, tipped arrow, or spectral arrow.Mob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.ArbalisticKill five unique mobs with one crossbow shotArmor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.Over-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.

Videos





History
See also: Bartering/Outdated loot tables



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are:
Bedrock 1.16.0.63 - "Gold ingots now render properly in piglin's hands at all times." (Before and After)

Concept
October 26, 2010
 Miclee suggests the concept of pigmen, the predecessor to piglins, resulting in him temporarily receiving the Bacon Cloak as a reward.April 25, 2011
It is suggested that pigmen may be the inhabitants of the then-to-be-implemented villages.August 13, 2012
Coding of a mob with no clothes is hinted at. This is later revealed to be a pigman which could be hired as a bodyguard. The player would have been able to give it armor and weapons.August 14, 2012
Further development of the pigman bodyguard.September 14, 2012
The pigman bodyguard is shelved.
Announcement
September 28, 2019
Piglins are announced at MINECON Live 2019.

 Footage shown at MINECON Live shows that angered piglins raise their arms in a manner similar to zombies, or zombified piglins. This is a behavior that is not reflected in the final version.December 5, 2019
 A video shows a piglin with crossbow with a baby hoglin.December 14, 2019
An image of a hoglin and piglins is released.January 14, 2020
A video shows piglins picking up gold thrown by the player and throwing back a placeholder diamond.March 4, 2020
An official post on Crowdin explains that the piglin was named such because it is a gender-neutral form of the word pigman.
Java Edition
Java Edition Alphav1.2.0preview
 The texture of pigmen has been added: mobs/pigman.png.Java Edition1.6.113w24a
The pigman texture has been removed.1.1620w07a
  Added piglins and baby piglins.

  Piglins can hold crossbows.

Piglins can be converted into zombified piglins in the Overworld.

 The player can barter with Piglins.
 Baby Piglins don't barter.
Piglins attack wither skeletons, but only when in groups of two or more.
Piglins and hoglins don't look at their target.
  Baby piglins can pick up items.
  Piglins can hold up crossbows to fire with no arrows loaded if interrupted while loading them.
 Piglins use one hand to hold a loaded crossbow.
Added unique textures and models for helmets when they are used by piglins.20w09a
Piglins now have an IsImmuneToZombification data value that, when set, prevents them from zombifying in the Overworld.

The loot table of items that can be bartered from piglins has been modified.

 Baby piglins can now ride on the back of baby hoglins.20w10a
The loot table of items that can be bartered from piglins has been modified again.
Piglins do not need to be in a group to attack a wither skeleton anymore and wither skeletons now attack piglins unprovoked.
Players are unable to set "LeftHanded" to "1b" for piglins.

Firework damage now provokes piglins.20w11a
Enchanted books and iron boots with Soul Speed have been added to the items that can be bartered from piglins.
Players are able to set "LeftHanded" to "1b" for piglins.

Piglins and hoglins look at their target.20w12a
 Baby piglins can now ride on top of each other on a baby hoglin, up to three baby piglins can climb on at once.20w14a
Piglins now avoid zoglins, the same way they avoid zombified piglins.

A baby piglin no longer holds a weapon when it turns into a zombie.

The texture size has changed from 128x64 to 64x64, and the layout of the parts of the ears of piglins has been changed.20w16a
Piglins now spawn in bastion remnants.20w19a
Piglins now become zombified piglins when in the End.20w21a
Piglins no longer walk around when admiring gold.

If a piglin is hurt while admiring an gold ingot, the ingot now disappears.20w22a
 Piglins now have a 10% chance to dance after defeating an adult hoglin.

 Piglins now have the vindicator attacking animation when melee attacking.pre3
The position of the head of piglins when they are dancing has been changed from  to .

The helmet model now uses the player helmet model on the piglins instead of a unique one that appears wider than the player's.

Piglins get angry if they detect a player breaking a storage block or a golden block, even when out of their line of sight.pre6
Adult piglins now may spawn with enchanted gear.1.16.2pre1
Piglins now become angry with players who open or destroy a minecart with chest or a minecart with hopper.1.16.3Release Candidate 1
Piglins no longer have pathfinding problems.1.1720w45a
Baby piglins can no longer pick up leather.21w08a
Piglins now become angry with players who destroy deepslate gold ore.21w14a
Added raw gold, which piglins attempt to pick up.21w18a
Piglins now become angry with players who destroy blocks of raw gold.

Piglins can also now pick up blocks of raw gold.1.1922w12a
Piglins now become angry with players who open or destroy a boat with chest.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w46a
Piglins now drop piglin heads when killed by a charged creeper.
Piglins' detection range is now reduced when the player wears a piglin head.1.19.423w06a
Minecart with hopper no longer aggravates piglins when opened.1.21.224w36a
Added the piglin_safe_armor tag, which controls what armor types render piglins neutral. Golden armor is included in this tag by default.1.21.424w45a
Piglins now prefer to pick crossbows from the ground as opposed to other items.1.21.625w18a
Dried ghasts have been added to the items that can be bartered from piglins.1.21.1125w41a
Piglins can now spawn with the new golden spears.
Piglins now consider golden spears as one of the items they like.25w42a
Piglins now consider golden nautilus armor as one of the items they like.pre1
Piglins now consider golden spears as one of their preferred weapons.26.1snap7
 The model and texture of baby piglins have been changed.snap8
Adjusted the hitboxes of the baby versions of piglins to fit in 1 block high or 0.5 block wide spaces.26.2snap4
Piglins can now spawn naturally in Peaceful difficulty without the use of bastion remnants.snap5
Piglins no longer despawn in Peaceful difficulty when they would otherwise convert to zombified piglins, and instead simply do not convert.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.16.0beta 1.16.0.51
  Added piglins and baby piglins.

 Piglins can hold crossbows.

 Baby piglins can ride on the back of baby hoglins.

 Piglins raise their arms in a manner similar to zombies when attacking.

Currently, piglins can drop only flint and steel and obsidian while bartering as a placeholder.

Piglins currently drop 0-2 arrows, even if the piglin is not armed with a crossbow.

Piglins currently use the player's hurt sound.

Piglins follow a player who holds a gold ingot.

 Piglins dance after they finish hoglin hunting.beta 1.16.0.57
Piglins now have their own sounds.

Piglin bartering has been properly added.

Piglins can no longer drop arrows when killed.

The health of piglins has been reduced from 24 to 16.

Piglins now spawn in bastion remnants.

Baby piglins can now ride on top of each other on a baby hoglin, up to three baby piglins can climb on at once.beta 1.16.0.59
Piglins now avoid zoglins, the same way they avoid zombified piglins.

Piglins now spawn in the nether wastes.

Piglins now properly sit in boats and minecarts.

Piglins no longer despawn in Peaceful mode.beta 1.16.0.63
Piglins now avoid soul campfires.

Gold ingots now render properly in the hands of piglins at all times.1.16.20beta 1.16.20.50
Adult piglins drop gold ingots if killed with one hit while contemplating them and no longer spawn with enchanted weapons or armor.

The texture size has changed from 128x128 to 64x64, and the layout of the parts of the ears of piglins has been changed to match Java Edition 20w14a's.

Piglins now have the vindicator attacking animation when melee attacking, similar to Java Edition's from  to

Piglins get angry when players attack Piglin brutes.beta 1.16.20.53
Piglins can now spawn with enchanted weapons again.beta 1.16.20.54
The attack animation of unarmed piglins has been changed.1.16.100beta 1.16.100.54
Piglins now keep their Crossbows when zombified.1.17.0beta 1.17.0.54
Piglins now pick up raw gold, block of raw gold, and deepslate gold ore.1.19.60ExperimentNext Major UpdatePreview 1.19.60.20
Piglins now drop piglin heads when killed by a charged creeper.
Piglins' detection range is now reduced when the player wears a piglin head.1.21.40Preview 1.21.40.20
Piglins are no longer attracted to powered rails to match Java Edition.1.21.60Preview 1.21.60.21
Golden swords dropped by piglins now have randomized durability to match Java Edition.1.21.90Preview 1.21.90.21
Dried ghasts have been added to the items that can be bartered from piglins.1.21.130Preview 1.21.130.20
Piglins can now spawn holding golden spears and use their jab attack.
Piglins now consider golden spears as one of the items they like.Preview 1.21.130.22
Piglins can now use the spear's charge attack.26.0Preview 26.0.27
Piglins are now part of the mob family.
Baby piglins are now part of a new family, baby_piglin. Pre-existing baby piglins are not affected by this change.26.10Preview 26.10.23
 The model and texture of baby piglins have been changed.26.20Preview 26.20.22
The hitboxes of baby piglins have been changed, to closely match Java Edition.26.40Preview 26.40.27
Arrow damage from piglins are no longer affected by difficulty and are now affected by velocity.
Issues
Issues relating to "Piglin" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
In Bedrock Edition, baby piglins make angry noises when any piglin gets angry.
Piglin sounds were made by blending sounds of a Swedish domestic pig known as a "Linderödssvin".
The page for the Nether Update mentions that piglins have mined all of the netherite out leaving only the ancient debris behind.
During development of piglins, Henrik Kniberg thought piglins flopping their ears was a fun way of conveying emotion and played around with piglins having different ear animations for different emotions which included when in idle, piglin ears would move slowly from side to side, when the piglin is excited, the ears would flop quickly from side to side but this was scrapped due to it not being important and not worth going the last mile for it.
Coincidentally, piglin is a real word meaning "urine" in J.R.R. Tolkien's Gnomish language.
Gallery
Renders



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: A GIF render of a piglin breaking its crossbow.



			A piglin targeting in Java Edition



			A piglin targeting in Bedrock Edition



			Piglin targeting in Java Edition



			Piglin targeting in Bedrock Edition



			The position of a sitting piglin



			A piglin looking at a gold ingot



			The position of a sitting baby piglin



			A baby piglin riding a hoglin



			Three baby piglins riding a hoglin



			A piglin celebrating a victorious hunt


Armed



			A full golden armor piglin



			A piglin loading up a crossbow



			A piglin wielding a golden spear


Screenshots



			Piglins attacking wither skeletons



			A render error causing the enchantment glint to cover the snout, fixed in 20w18a



			A piglin chasing a hoglin



			An example of a baby piglin holding a lava bucket



			An example of a baby piglin riding a baby hoglin



			Another example, this time showing that up to 3 baby piglins can ride a single baby hoglin



			A fully armored piglin examining a clock



			All of the pig-like mobs in the Nether Update



			A piglin alongside a shivering strider



			A piglin sneaking up on a villager



			A piglin in the Overworld, next to a zombified piglin


Mojang images



			Piglins



			A preview showing two piglins fighting a hoglin in a crimson forest



			A preview of a piglin next to a hoglin in the crimson forest



			Piglins handling gold



			Piglin in a crimson forest



			A piglin in the Nether



			Piglins using their ears to convey emotion






Textures



			Piglin texture file



			Baby piglin texture file



			Pigman texture file



			A variant of the original pigman texture, created by Xaphobia, which was also planned to be added


In other media



			Piglins in promotional artwork for the Nether Update



			Official artwork of the piglin standing next to a fire



			Animated artwork GIF of a piglin standing next to a fire



			Official artwork of a piglin



			Official artwork of two piglins



			Official artwork of one piglin



			Official artwork of four piglins



			Piglin Spirit from Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Two piglins fighting Efe in artwork for the 15th anniversary of Minecraft



			A piglin in a group chat



			A piglin DJ performing Pigstep



			Several piglins as they appear on the cover of Return of the Piglins



			Artwork of two piglins and a piglin brute, made to promote the Minecraft Legends Live Event



			An animation of a piglin retreating from Minecraft Legends Live Event



			Animation of several piglin hunters easily killing a hoglin



			Piglin Tunic



			A piglin in the Natural texture pack



			A piglin in the Plastic texture pack



			Piglins in the Nether looking at Steve in A Minecraft Movie



			Official Piglin action figure



			A group of several figures, including one of Steve



			Lego Minecraft Piglin



			Keychain of a LEGO Piglin.



			A piglin LEGO minifigure from A Minecraft Movie, not based off the film design














See also
Piglin Brute
Zombified Piglin
Bartering
Pigman
Notes

 In Bedrock Edition, 0.75% of zombified piglins, as well as baby zombified piglins are unavoided. See Zombified Piglin § Mounting.

References

 MC-175867

 MCPE-178466 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-172102 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-172087 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-172600 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-172239 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-189485 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-235027 – Invisible players cannot provoke piglins, piglin brutes and hoglins when hitting/shooting them

 MC-178973 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-179104 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-256289 – AngryAt tag is not used by certain neutral mobs, causing them to forget their target upon reloading game

 MC-195278 – If the "universalAnger" is set to true, certain neutral mobs don't fight back when you attack them

 MC-187857 – New neutral mob behavior improvements were not implemented for llamas, dolphins, and spiders in the daylight

 MC-163960 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MCPE-67489

 MC-227625

 MCPE-99448

 This does not happen in Bedrock Edition due to MCPE-70866.

 https://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-java-edition/discussion/116353-minecraft-facts-big-list-of-what-notch-has

 "It was going to be a type of pigman that you could convince to fight for you, like a bodyguard."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 15, 2020

 "The reason it had no clothes was that I wanted the player to be responsible for what it wore and what weapons it used, but that logically meant naked mob by default :D"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 15, 2020

 for users without accounts: https://web.archive.org/web/20200406051054/media.discordapp.net/attachments/449243256849563648/690754756938825748/image0.png

 The texture was added in the preview, as the texture dates from October 27, 2010 and the preview released at October 29, 2010.

 MC-172161 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-172428 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-177973

 MC-182877

 MC-173858 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-111498 – Fireworks and water bottles damage don't make neutral mobs angry or hostile – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-196449 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-197179 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-198874 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MCPE-91187 – Piglins are attracted to powered rails – resolved as "Fixed".

 MCPE-75292 – Gold swords dropped by piglins and zombified piglins all have the same durability – resolved as "Fixed".

 MCPE-236077

 MCPE-94090

 "They’re all a blend of recordings of a swedish domestic pig ”Linderödssvin” and a real snorty session in the recording booth. Brutes had a unique session but a different personality."  – @slamp0000  on X (formerly Twitter), April 6, 2021

 "Minecraft Nether Update"   (Archive)  – Minecraft.

 "06 Space Vadå prototyp"  – Agila Sverige on YouTube, June 21, 2022

 "G. piglin n."   (Archive)  by Paul Strack  – Eldamo - An Elvish Lexicon. "A noun appearing as G. piglin "urine" in the Gnomish Lexicon of the 1910s (GL/64), probably based on the early root ᴱ√PIQI which had Quenya derivatives having to do with bitterness (QL/74).Neo-Sindarin: I would update this word to ᴺS. saerlin "urine", a combination of [N.] saer "bitter" (Ety/SAG) and the root √LIN which was sometimes connected to the sound of moving water (WJ/382)."

External links
"Meet the Piglins"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, June 17, 2020.
Navigation



This was a featured article from May 25, 2026 – May 31, 2026. 
See Minecraft Wiki:Featured articles for more information.