For the sticky version, see Sticky Piston.

 For the block in Minecraft Earth, see MCE:Piston.

Piston

Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

Tool

Blast resistance

1.5

Hardness

1.5

Luminous

No

Transparent

JE: NoBE: Yes

Waterloggable

JE: NoBE: Yes

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

No

Map color

 11 STONE

Note block instrument

Default (Harp)

{
    "title": "Piston",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:SlotSprite Pickaxe Required.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=SlotSprite Pickaxe Required.png: Sprite image for Pickaxe Required in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|This block can be broken with any tool, but a pickaxe is the quickest)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "1.5",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "1.5",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Waterlogging article, displayed as Waterloggable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: rgb(112, 112, 112); border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> 11 STONE</span>",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Default (Harp)",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Piston"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Piston.gif",
        "Piston BE.gif"
    ]
}

A piston is a block capable of pushing most entities and blocks when given a redstone signal.
Some blocks cannot be moved, break when pushed or have other interactions with pistons. A piston can move up to twelve blocks at once.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Crafting

2 Usage

2.1 Crafting ingredient
2.2 Redstone component
2.3 Powering pistons

2.3.1 Start delay
2.3.2 Quasi-Connectivity
2.3.3 Soft inversion

2.4 Sticky blocks
2.5 Sculk detection

3 Limitations

3.1 Exceptions

4 Technical components
5 Sounds

5.1 Generic
5.2 Unique

6 Data values

6.1 ID
6.2 Block states
6.3 Block data

7 Achievements
8 Videos
9 History

9.1 Development
9.2 Java Edition
9.3 Bedrock Edition
9.4 Legacy Console Edition
9.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
9.6 Data history

9.6.1 Java Edition
9.6.2 Bedrock Edition
9.6.3 Legacy Console Edition

10 Issues
11 Trivia
12 Gallery

12.1 Screenshots
12.2 Mojang screenshots
12.3 Concept artwork
12.4 In other media

13 See also
14 Notes
15 References
16 External links
17 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
A piston can be broken using any tool with equal efficiency, and always drops itself.
It is faster to break them with a pickaxe. The pickaxe is also the preferred tool for breaking the head when extended.

Block

Piston

Hardness

1.5

Tool

Breaking time (sec)

Default

2.25

Wooden

1.15

Stone

0.6

Copper

0.45

Iron

0.4

Diamond

0.3

Netherite

0.25

Golden

0.2

OptionsEfficiency000Haste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

 These durations ignore any other influential factors (e.g., Mining Fatigue) and are measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Mining efficiency.

Crafting

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Any Planks +Cobblestone +Iron Ingot +Redstone Dust

Usage
See also: Tutorial:Piston uses and Redstone circuits/Piston

Crafting ingredient

Name
Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Sticky Piston

Slimeball +Piston

Redstone component
Pistons are always placed facing toward the player. When powered, the piston's wooden surface (the "head") tries to start extending after a start delay. The extension takes 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds) to finish. When it extends, it pushes at most 12 blocks. The piston makes a sound that can be heard within a 31×31×31 cube centered on the activating piston. Any entities in the path of an extending piston (or any block it might be moving) are pushed along, when possible. If the entities cannot be moved, the block is pushed inside them, suffocating mobs when pushed into their eye height (assuming said block is solid).
When a piston loses power, its head retracts. Like the extension, the retraction starts after a start delay and takes 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds) to finish.
In Java Edition, a piston that is de-powered during the extension process aborts its extension and starts to retract (assuming it can detect the signal change). Any block which was being pushed by that piston continues to move as if the piston was still pushing it.
A piston that pushes a slime block bounces any entity that it displaces in the direction the piston is facing. Entities on top of a moving honey block, or any other moving block,‌[BE  only] will also move with it. In addition, when a slime block or a honey block is moved by a piston, any movable block adjacent (not diagonally) to it also moves. See § Sticky blocks for more details.
In Bedrock Edition, blocks that require a support (such as levers) can be placed on the back or sides of a piston without being destroyed when that piston extends. In Java Edition, on the other hand, the majority of blocks that require a support are only safe to place on the back of pistons.
In Bedrock Edition, comparators can read the fullness of containers through pistons, despite them not being conductive.

Powering pistons
Pistons powered by one line of redstone
Pistons can be activated from any side, excluding from the head.
In Bedrock Edition, redstone dust gets automatically redirected toward pistons if placed next to them (except for the head's side).

Start delay
A piston won't extend or retract immediately when it is activated: this phenomenon is known as "start delay".

Edition
Start delay
Notes

Java

0 or 1 game tick

0 ticks if powered during the scheduled tick, random tick or block event phase; 1 tick if powered during the entity or block entity phase, or during player input handling.

Bedrock

Fixed 2 game ticks

Activation occurs only on a consume tick (C-tick).

In Java Edition, the start delay can be 0 (activation in the same tick) or 1 game tick (0.05 seconds) (activation in the next tick) depending on the game process in which the piston is powered:

If the piston is powered and updated in the scheduled tick phase, random tick phase or block event phase, the piston activates in this game tick's block event phase, which means the start delay in this case is 0.
If the piston is powered and updated during the entity phase or the block entity phase, or by player actions, the piston activates in the next game tick's block event phase, which means the start delay in this case is 1 tick. Notably, because blocks pushed by pistons arrive during the block entity phase (except when dropped by a sticky piston), in a chain of pistons each pushing a redstone block to activate the next, successive activations will happen 3 ticks apart.
In Bedrock Edition, the start delay is fixed at 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds), meaning that the piston starts to extend or retract 2 game ticks after it is activated. Pistons can only activate on the input/consumer redstone tick (C-tick).

Quasi-Connectivity
See also: Tutorial:Quasi-connectivity



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

A lamp that's being powered normally on top of a piston that's being powered through quasi-connectivity.
Pistons can be powered from one block above compared to most redstone components: this property is called quasi-connectivity (QC). With quasi-connectivity, a piston facing up can also be powered from the head's direction, which is otherwise impossible. Due to quasi-connectivity, a piston facing up that has a block of redstone on top of itself can extend but not retract: this happens because after the piston extends, it keeps receiving power from the redstone block.
Quasi-connectivity can be used to make a BUD switch, taking advantage of the fact that a piston powered through QC doesn't always get immediately updated.

Soft inversion
See also: Tutorial:Soft inversion



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Flicking the lever caused the piston to extend and the redstone torch to turn off.
When a piston that has a redstone torch attached to it is powered, the redstone torch turns off, and when said piston is depowered, the redstone torch turns back on: this property is called soft inversion. Since soft inversion works even if the piston is being powered indirectly through a block, it can be used to toggle the state of a redstone torch from farther away compared to other powering methods. It's still possible to take advantage of soft inversion even if the piston cannot extend or retract.

Sticky blocks

A

B

Piston A extends because the slime block can't stick to the adjacent obsidian. Piston B fails because the obsidian blocks the block attached to the slime block.
Slime and honey blocks are sticky: when either block is moved by a piston, adjacent (non-diagonal) blocks stick to and move with it. For example, a slime block sitting on the ground attempts to move the ground block underneath itself, which in turn has to push additional ground blocks in the direction of motion just as if they were being pushed directly by a piston. The same occurs when a sticky block is moved by another adjacent sticky block of the same kind. For example, a 2×2×2 cube of honey blocks may be pushed as a single unit by a piston acting on any of the blocks in the cube. Any block that cannot be moved or can be broken by a piston does not stick to sticky blocks. However, if an adjacent block could be moved but is prevented from being moved by the presence of an immovable block, the sticky block is prevented from moving as well, and the piston does not extend.
Slime and honey blocks do not stick to each other. This allows redstone contraptions to use alternating slime and honey blocks side by side without interfering with each other.
Slime and honey blocks' stickiness is unilateral. They can't be pulled by a non-sticky piston, and they are not moved if an adjacent (non-sticky) block is moved by a piston. The maximum of 12 blocks moved by a piston still applies. For example, a 2×2×3 structure of slime blocks may be pushed by a piston as long as no other movable block is adjacent to it. A piston cannot move itself via a "hook" constructed of sticky blocks, but flying machines can be created with multiple pistons.
Glazed terracotta and the heavy core‌[BE  only] do not stick to adjacent slime or honey blocks, even though they can be pushed by pistons.

Sculk detection
Pistons emit vibrations detectable by sculk sensors. A calibrated sculk sensor tuned to signal strength 10 detects piston retraction; strength 11 detects extension; strength 12 detects a block broken by a piston.

Limitations
Pistons cannot push:

Blocks listed as such in the table below.
Blocks into the void or above the build limit.
More than 12 blocks at once.
In Java Edition, blocks beyond the world border.
If the requirements for a block to be pushed are not met, the piston will not extend.

Block

Effect (Java Edition)

Effect (Bedrock Edition)

Barrier
Beacon
Bedrock
Calibrated Sculk Sensor
Command Block
Creaking Heart
Crying Obsidian
Enchanting Table
End Gateway
End Portal
End Portal Frame
Ender Chest
Grindstone
Jigsaw Block
Jukebox
Light Block
Lodestone
Monster Spawner
Moving Piston
Nether Portal
Obsidian
Piston (extended)
Piston Head
Potent Sulfur
Reinforced Deepslate
Respawn Anchor
Sculk Catalyst
Sculk Sensor
Sculk Shrieker
Structure Block
Trial Spawner
Vault

Cannot be pushed.

Test Block
Test Instance Block

Cannot be pushed.

N/A

Allow
Deny
Border

N/A

Cannot be pushed.

Compound Creator
Element
Element Constructor
Hardened Glass
Hardened Glass Pane
Heat Block
Lab Table
Material Reducer
Underwater TNT

Can be pushed.

Underwater Torch
Colored Torches

Breaks when pushed, turning into drops when applicable.

Barrel
Beehive
Bee Nest
Blast Furnace
Brewing Stand
Chest
Chiseled Bookshelf
Conduit
Copper Chests
Crafter
Daylight Detector
Dispenser
Dropper
Furnace
Hopper
Lectern
Shelf
Smoker
Trapped Chest

Cannot be pushed, because these blocks hold block entities.

Can be pushed.

 Large chest
 Large trapped chest
 Large copper chests

Can be pushed, but separates into two chests.

Banners
Hanging Signs
Signs

Breaks when pushed or unsupported, turning into drops when applicable.

Campfire
Soul Campfire

Breaks when pushed, turning into drops when applicable.

Structure Void

Breaks when pushed, turning into drops when applicable.

Cannot be pushed.

Dead Coral
Dead Coral Fans

Can be pushed, but breaks if unsupported, turning into drops when applicable.

Breaks when pushed or unsupported, turning into drops when applicable.

Carpets (not moss)
Rail
Powered Rail
Activator Rail
Detector Rail

Can be pushed, but breaks if unsupported, turning into drops when applicable.

Bell
Copper Lantern
Lantern
Soul Lantern

Breaks when pushed, turning into drops when applicable.

Can be pushed, but breaks if unsupported, turning into drops when applicable.

Candles

Can be pushed.

Air
Amethyst Cluster
Bamboo
Beds
Budding Amethyst
Button
Cactus
Cake
Carved Pumpkin
Cave Vines
Chorus Flower
Chorus Plant
Cobweb
Cocoa
Copper Golem Statue
Copper Torch
Dead Bush
Decorated Pot
Doors
Fire
Fern
Flower Pot
Flowers
Frogspawn
Glow Lichen
Heads
Item Frame
Jack o'Lantern
Ladder
Lava
Leaves
Lever
Lily Pad
Melon
Melon Stem
Moss Block
Moss Carpet
Mushrooms
Nether Wart
Painting
Pale Hanging Moss
Pale Moss Block
Pale Moss Carpet
Pink Petals
Pointed Dripstone
Pressure Plates
Pumpkin
Pumpkin Stem
Redstone Comparator
Redstone Dust
Redstone Repeater
Redstone Torch
Resin Clump
Saplings
Sculk Vein
Sea Pickle
Short Grass
Shulker Box
Snow
Soul Fire
Sugar Cane
Torch
Torchflower
Torchflower Crop
Tripwire
Tripwire Hook
Turtle Egg
Twisting Vines
Vines
Water
Weeping Vines
Weighted Pressure Plates
Wheat

Breaks when pushed, turning into drops when applicable.

Anvil

Can be pushed, but only when in a falling state.

Can be pushed, but falls if unsupported.

Concrete Powder
Gravel
Red Sand
Sand

Can be pushed, but falls if unsupported.

Scaffolding
Suspicious Gravel
Suspicious Sand
Dragon Egg

Breaks when pushed, unless if in a falling state.

Pistons cannot move blocks that require a support block, as they break and drop as an item (when applicable). There are however some exceptions, listed down below.

Exceptions
Carpets: since they consider all blocks excluding air as valid supports, moving carpets with pistons without them breaking is fairly easy.
A carpet can even stay on top of a moving block without breaking.
Rails: they can be moved as long as they remain on top of a block's full face (if it has one) in their new position. Once the piston finishes to push or pull the rail, the block below can only be a moving block if its collision box is at the final position, otherwise the rail does not consider it a valid support.
When the rail and the block supporting it are on two vertically parallel extending pistons, the rail doesn't break. Trying to move the rail and its support block with perpendicular pistons causes the rail to break (although in Java Edition, due to the bug MC-75716,  it visually appears to not break). In Java Edition, the piston moving the block can be powered 1 block event after the piston moving the rail in order for the rail to be moved reliably without breaking.
Rails re-orient themselves after being pushed, similar to when placed manually.
Dead coral and dead coral fans: in Java Edition, they can be pushed similarly to how rails can; however in some situations the coral will both break and get moved by the piston, emitting block updates at its original position.
This mechanic is frequently used in TNT dupers.

Technical components
Main article: Piston/Technical components
Pistons have 2 technical blocks that cannot be obtained. These include the piston head and moving piston blocks.

Sounds
Generic
Java Edition:

v
t
e stone sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.stone.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.816​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.stone.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.816​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.stone.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.stone.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.50.7516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.stone.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.016
Bedrock Edition (piston):

v
t
e stone sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.stonesubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.8–1.0​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedplace.stonesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.8–1.0​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.stonesubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.370.5​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.31.0​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.121.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.221.0
Bedrock Edition (arm):

v
t
e normal sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.stonesubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.8–1.0​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedplace.stonesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.8–1.0​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.stonesubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.27 0.5​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.31.0​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.121.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.221.0
 MCPE-169612 – Many blocks make slightly different sounds to stone

Unique
Java Edition:

v
t
eSoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Piston movesBlocksWhen a piston extendsblock.piston.extendsubtitles.block.piston.move​​​0.50.6–0.858​Piston movesBlocksWhen a piston contractsblock.piston.contractsubtitles.block.piston.move​​​0.50.6–0.88
 MC-277653

Bedrock Edition:

v
t
eSoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksWhen a piston extendstile.piston.out​ ?0.50.6–0.75​ ?BlocksWhen a piston contractstile.piston.in​ ?0.50.6–0.75
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierFormBlock tags
Translation key PistonpistonBlock & ItemNone
block.minecraft.piston
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierAlias ID Numeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key PistonpistonNone33Block & Giveable ItemIdentical
tile.piston.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Available with /give command.

 The block's direct item form has the same ID as the block.

NameSavegame ID
 Piston block entityPistonArm

Block states
See also: Block states

The piston block uses following block states:
Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  extendedfalsefalsetrueIf true, the piston is extended.
facingnorthdowneastnorthsouthupwestThe direction the piston head is pointing.The opposite from the direction the player faces while placing the piston.
Bedrock Edition:

  NameMetadata Bits
  Default value
  Allowed valuesValues forMetadata Bits
  Description
  facing_direction0x10x20x40012345012345The direction the piston is pointing.
0: facing down
1: facing up
2: facing south
3: facing north
4: facing east
5: facing west
Block data



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

In Bedrock Edition, a piston has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherInceptionPush a piston with a piston, then pull the original piston with that piston.—20Silver
Videos





History



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Extended pistons in Legacy Console Edition look different since TU46

Development
May 21, 2009
Notch shows interest in adding blocks that can pull and push other blocks when a pulse from a wire is received; he called them "Pulley1", which would pull a block down, and "Pulley2", which would push a block up.?
  The original piston was a mod posted on the Minecraft Forums by Hippoplatimus. The code for that version was given to Jeb, who then worked on implementing pistons into vanilla Minecraft; Hippoplatimus is in the game's credits under "Additional Programming", like other modders whose work made it into vanilla Minecraft.

Another user, DiEvAl, privately submitted code as well, including the idea of block entities to track moving blocks.June 7, 2011
Jeb tweets an image of pistons in development.

 The piston texture as screen-captured while in development had iron bands running over the head. The bands were removed for the release, leaving only iron brackets around the corners and edges.June 14, 2011
A video showing pistons being worked on is posted on the official Minecraft YouTube channel.
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.7
          Added pistons, alongside associated head and moving blocks.

A bug existed in this version which caused the game to crash and lock the player out of their world when powering pistons in some scenarios (for example when trying to push a redstone torch).1.7_01
The aforementioned bug has been fixed and affected worlds now load normally again.

Headless pistons do not break upon receiving a block update anymore.Java Edition1.2.4release
Spruce, birch, and jungle planks can now be used to craft pistons.1.3.112w26a
Pistons now schedule extensions and retractions rather than executing them as soon as they realize they are (un)powered.1.513w10a
Pistons changing their extended state from false to true is now the last step of (the start of) the extension process, rather then the first. This change affects some redstone contraptions.1.7.21.7.1
Acacia and dark oak planks can now be used to craft pistons.1.814w17a
    The models for pistons when facing up and down have been changed.14w18a
Slime blocks now push and pull blocks adjacent when connected to sticky pistons.

Extending a piston with a slime block on top of it launches the entity (mobs, players, items, launched arrows, etc) into the air.14w19a
Slime blocks can now push entities sideways and downward when attached to a piston.14w26a
Pistons do not check if they are receiving power in the moment in which their extended state changes from false to true anymore.1.915w38b
Retracting pistons can now pull entities through them. This behavior was known as "piston translocation" by the community.15w49a
Unextended pistons, downward-facing pistons, and upward-facing piston heads are now considered to have a solid top surface, like upside-down stairs and top slabs.1.1116w40a
Retracting pistons can no longer pull entities through them. "Piston translocation" has been removed.1.1217w16a
When pistons move slime blocks, they do not move glazed terracotta attached to the side of the slime block.pre3
Glazed terracotta does not stick to slime blocks in some situations anymore.1.1317w47a
Pistons now can push note blocks.17w48a
Piston heads are no longer removed when breaking a piston while it is extending.17w49a
Piston heads are now once again removed when breaking a piston while it is extending.pre7
Pistons now have the same block dropping behavior of sticky pistons.1.13.118w30b
Pistons don't drop blocks anymore.1.1418w43a
          The textures associated with pistons have been changed.

While the texture for oak planks was later updated in subsequent snapshots, the piston texture is yet to be changed to reflect this.18w44a
Non-extended pistons now block light.18w46a
Added support for directional opacity of blocks. As such, extended pistons now allow light to only pass through certain faces.1.1519w41a
Added honey blocks, which have multiple different types of interactions with pistons.1.1620w06a
The hardness of pistons has been increased from 0.5 to 1.5.

The blast resistance of pistons has been increased from 0.5 to 1.5.

Pickaxes are now the tool for breaking pistons.

Pistons no longer pop off redstone components placed on the back when retracting.

Crimson and warped planks can now be used to craft pistons.1.1720w45a
Particles now appear if a block is broken by a piston.1.1922w11a
Mangrove planks can now be used to craft pistons.22w17a
      Changed piston textures, to match the color of the oak planks on the piston head.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w42a
Bamboo planks can now be used to craft pistons.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Cherry planks can now be used to craft pistons.1.2124w20a
Piston sounds have been updated to be quieter and less harsh.24w21a
Piston sounds have been reverted to what they previously were, but the attenuation distance and sound level has been halved.1.21.525w10a
Blocks that are broken by a piston now play their breaking sound.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.15.0build 1
 Added pistons.

Pistons have a version exclusive animation and the ability to push block entities.Bedrock Edition1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
 The texture of pistons has been changed.1.20.30Preview 1.20.20.21
Increased the hardness and blast resistance of pistons from 0.5 to 1.5.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU3CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
 Added pistons.TU141.04
Pistons have been changed to make them less error-prone, thus they also appear to update slower. This also alters the way pistons work, so the player might have to adapt their repeater delays and similar.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Retracting pistons can now pull entities through them. This was known as "piston translocation" by the community.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Retracting pistons can no longer pull entities through them. "Piston translocation" has been removed.TU57CU491.571.561.56Patch 271.0.7
Pistons can now move daylight detectors.TU60CU511.641.641.64Patch 301.0.11
Pistons can no longer move cauldrons.TU62CU521.661.661.66Patch 311.0.12
Pistons can now move small chests but only if the new position would have been valid for players to place a new chest. This limitation can however be bypassed by moving the chests simultaniously.
Pistons can move cauldrons again.   1.90
 The texture of pistons has been changed.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
 Added pistons.
Data history
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.7
Six-sided pistons exist as extreme metadata variants of pistons.Java Edition1.814w26a
Pistons now use block states instead of metadata. As such, weird pistons have been removed.1.1317w47a
Prior to The Flattening, this block's numeral ID was 33.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.15.0build 1
Weird pistons also existed, but they didn't look six-sided.Bedrock Edition1.13.0beta 1.13.0.1
Weird pistons have been removed.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch?
Weird pistons definitely existed at one point.
Issues
Issues relating to "Piston" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Mojang stated that the 12-block push limit for pistons would not be changed, because "the current limitations are by design".
Carpets can be placed on top of moving blocks.
Gallery
Screenshots



			Fundamental logic gates, implemented purely with pistons and redstone repeaters, clockwise from upper left: AND, OR, XOR, and NOT



			Slow clock generator with pistons and redstone



			An example of a piston-controlled waterflow


Mojang screenshots



			First screenshot of pistons



			Another screenshot of in-development pistons



			Light shining through an extended piston



			Redstone connecting to pistons in Bedrock Edition



			A piston being crafted with a fish. This is a joke about the piston sounds heard in Java Edition 24w20a, which have been said to sound wet.



			"Makena tinkering with a Redstone contraption made up of Pistons pushing a Lime Wool block"


Concept artwork



			Notch's explanation on how the rod (a full block long when extended) fits into the piston box (whose depth is a block minus the face's thickness)


In other media



			Artwork of an incorrectly-rotated piston connected to a lever via redstone dust



			Pistons as they appear in Minecraft: Shape Your World



			Pistons as they appear in A Minecraft Movie.


See also
Slime block
Redstone
Tutorial:Piston uses
Tutorial:Headless pistons
Mechanics/Redstone/Piston circuits
Notes

 Despite their name, sticky pistons do not fall under this definition.

 Check the exceptions section

 Check the exceptions section

 In Java Edition, item frames are entities,
not blocks. In Bedrock Edition, they are blocks.

 In Java Edition, if the "Fixed" NBT tag is set to "1", the item frame does not break when attempting to push it using a piston, but it still does not push. If the "Invulnerable" NBT tag is set to "1", the item frame breaks when pushed.

 Paintings are technically entities, not blocks.

References

 MC-171370 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MCPE-17909 – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 "Explaining soft inversion: the Minecraft Bedrock Redstone bug that won't get fixed" – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zUgKXTsLOA0

 http://www.minecraftforum.net/viewtopic.php?t=247686&f=1032

 https://web.archive.org/web/20110402064652/http://www.minecraftforum.net/viewtopic.php?t=247686&f=1032

 http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/hvkmo/attribution_of_the_piston_mod_in_vanilla_minecraft/

 MC-89030

 MC-116373 – resolved as "fixed".

 MC-122711

 MC-133273

 MC-248841 – resolved as "Works As Intended".


"Piston Push Limits (and increases). The current limitations are by design."     – Minecraft Feedback, January 3, 2019.

 "Minecraft Java Edition 1.20.3"     by Java Team  – Minecraft.net, December 5, 2023.

 "@danstonchat @jeb_ https://i.imgur.com/VLfl0.png"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), June 22, 2011

External links
"Block of the Week: Piston"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, October 13, 2017.
Navigation