This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Minecraft uses an assortment of different placeholder textures for handling cases where textures cannot be drawn normally.

Contents

1 Missing texture
2 Animation placeholder textures
3 Texture atlas blank spaces

3.1 Uses
3.2 History

3.2.1 Blocks
3.2.2 Items
3.2.3 Particles
3.2.4 Paintings
3.2.5 Effects
3.2.6 Map icons
3.2.7 Unsorted

4 Default texture

4.1 Uses
4.2 History

5 Bedrock Edition missing textures
6 Debug textures
7 Default player skins
8 References
9 Navigation

Missing texture
Main article: Missing textures and models § Missing texture
The most known, the missing texture, is a texture composed of a black and magenta checkerboard, and turns up anytime a texture or model reference could not be correctly resolved.

Animation placeholder textures
Main article: Animation placeholder texture
Another type of placeholder texture, these were overwritten by the actual animated textures during gameplay once said textures were generated by the game. They would appear themselves in the event that the associated animation could not be generated for whatever reason.

Texture atlas blank spaces



This section describes content that has been removed from Minecraft. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Minecraft, but has since been removed.



This section is missing information about: items.png and inventory.png also have other separate placeholder textures that are different from just empty areas 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

When predefined texture atlases were used for storing and loading textures, certain patterns (or blank spaces) were sometimes placed in unused regions.
These texture spots were removed after the texture atlases containing them were split up into individual files.



			Nothing:items.pngparticles.png



			Purple square:terrain.pngkz.png



			Blue square:Early mapicons.png


Uses
 For cases where the placeholder textures were unintentionally used in-game, see Java Edition placeholder texture uses, Bedrock Edition placeholder texture uses, and Legacy Console Edition placeholder texture uses.

History
Blocks
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
 Added terrain.png, with the purple square placeholder.Java Edition1.513w02a
Deprecated terrain.png, taking the purple placeholder texture for blocks with it. The file remains in the jar, unused, as does results.png, a new file containing textures that are not split.

 The generated texture atlas (stitched_terrain.png) now produces solid yellow squares in empty regions.13w02b
terrain.png is now removed from the jar file, resulting in the placeholder block texture being almost fully removed.13w03a
results.png has now been removed from the jar file, completely eradicating all block placeholder texture squares.

 The empty spaces in stitched_terrain.png are now blank, although removing the alpha channel will still show the yellow placeholder texture.Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
 This version presumably added terrain.png, alongside its placeholder texture.v0.8.0build 2
 Removed terrain.png, taking the purple placeholder texture for blocks with it. The replacement texture atlas (terrain-atlas.tga) uses blank spaces instead.Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch1.66.0016.0
 This was presumably the version to add terrain.png, alongside its placeholder texture.TU19CU71.121.121.12
 terrain.png has been extended downward to fit more textures. This is despite the fact that there is still one purple placeholder square remaining.TU25CU121.171.171.17
The last purple placeholder square has been replaced, fully removing them from terrain.png.
Items



This section is missing information about: there were some different placeholder slots up until the end, alongside outright blank areas 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition Indev0.3120091231-2147
 Added items.png, with the blank placeholder.Java Edition1.513w02a
Deprecated items.png.

 The generated texture atlas (stitched_items.png) now produces solid yellow squares in empty regions.13w03a
 The empty spaces in stitched_items.png are now blank.Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
 This version presumably added items.png, alongside its placeholder texture.v0.8.0build 1
 Removed items.png. The replacement texture atlas (items-opaque.tga) still uses blank spaces.Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch1.66.0016.0
 This was presumably the version to add items.png, alongside its placeholder texture.
Particles
Java Edition Classic0.26 SURVIVAL TEST
 Added particles.png, with the blank placeholder.Java Edition1.1419w06a
 Removed particles.png. The generated atlas, particles.png-atlas, still has blank spaces.Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
 This version presumably added particles.png, alongside its placeholder texture.Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch1.66.0016.0
 This was presumably the version to add particles.png, alongside its placeholder texture.
Paintings
Java Edition IndevMinecraft Indev20100223
 Added kz.png, with the purple square placeholder.Java Edition1.1419w07a
 Removed paintings_kristoffer_zetterstrand.png, taking the purple placeholder texture out of the game entirely. The generated atlas, paintings.png-atlas, instead has blank spaces.Pocket Edition Alphav0.5.0
 Added kz.png, with the purple square placeholder.Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch1.66.0016.0
 This was presumably the version to add kz.png, alongside its placeholder texture.
Effects
Map icons
Java Edition Beta1.6Test Build 3
 Added mapicons.png, with the cyan square placeholder.Java Edition1.1318w10a
 map_icons.png now uses blank spaces for placeholders instead of blue squares.Pocket Edition Alphav0.14.0build 1
 Added mapicons.png, with the cyan square placeholder.Bedrock Edition?
mapicons.png no longer has any placeholder regions, as all 16 spaces now correspond to a map icon.
Unsorted
Java Edition1.1419w08a
 Split effect icons from inventory.png, taking out some of the placeholder regions, although most were blank to begin with anyway.
Default texture
In some cases where textures were not explicitly defined for certain blocks, the blocks in question would "default" to the texture at position (0,0) of the texture atlas in use. Where terrain.png is used, this was the top of the grass block; however, with the deprecation of predefined texture atlases and their replacement with atlases that generate at runtime, this texture tended to shift with time.
Since 14w25a, the majority of such cases are instead directed to the missing texture, although some notable outliers persisted beyond this point.

Uses
 For cases where the default texture was unintentionally used in-game, see Java Edition default texture uses, Bedrock Edition default texture uses, and Legacy Console Edition default texture uses.

History
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
 The texture at (0,0) in the current block texture atlas, terrain.png, is the top of the grass block.rd-20090515
 The grass block top texture has changed.Java Edition Alphav1.2.0preview
 The grass block top texture has changed.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
 The grass block top texture has changed.1.513w02a
terrain.png has been removed and replaced with texture atlases generated at runtime.

 By default, the texture at (0,0) is the missing texture, meaning that certain things that use this texture in-game actually use it due to it being the texture at (0,0), rather than it being the missing texture and pointing to it in error cases. It is possible to distinguish default texture uses from true uses of the missing texture by applying a texture pack with a block graphic which is larger than 64x64: blocks that point to the missing texture specifically still use the missing texture and will therefore be unaffected by the texture pack, but those that simply point to the default position use the new, large texture provided by the texture pack.​[more information needed]1.6.113w18a
The missing texture has changed in this version, becoming 16x16 from its previous 64x64 size.

 As such, due to how textures are ordered in atlases the game generates, it is no longer at the top-left of the atlas, instead being replaced by the 32x32 flowing lava texture, which is used in these cases.​[more information needed]13w18b
The flowing lava particles are now animated.1.814w06a
 Unreferenced textures now point to the block of redstone texture instead, likely as a fix to MC-46427.14w06b
End portals and moving pistons now have the lava texture again when broken, although barriers still use the redstone block texture. This is likely due to the fix for MC-47482.14w25a
 Unreferenced textures now point to the missing texture from this point forward. All cases of this happening are now counted as uses of the missing texture.14w30a
The default texture appears to be used again in some cases, such as chest item particles (only accessible via commands).​[more information needed]1.13?
The default texture is no longer referenced for any item, excluding shields.1.1418w47a
The default texture is no longer used for shield particles.
Bedrock Edition missing textures
 For cases where these placeholder textures were used in-game, see Bedrock Edition missing tile texture uses.

Unlike in Java Edition, which has a single missing texture that is generated by the game at runtime, Bedrock Edition defines other textures as image files in the game's assets directory:

Path

Use case

textures/blocks/missing_tile.png

Commonly used for blocks and their item forms that have no assigned texture or blocks that are in the game and have their texture, but the texture isn't assigned correctly.

textures/ui/missing_item.png

Unknown​[more information needed]

Debug textures
Main article: History of textures/Unused textures § debug.png and debug2.png



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

MC-125280
Default player skins



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

References

 MC-15020

 MC-121759

Navigation