For the Java Edition equivalent, see Select World and Server list.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

The "Worlds" tab of the Play screen in grid mode
The Play menu is one of the game's multiple menu screens. It provides access to the Create new world menu, and also lists pre-existing worlds that can be entered.

Contents

1 Overview

1.1 Worlds

1.1.1 Create new world

1.2 Realms
1.3 Servers

2 History
3 Issues
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Historical screenshots

6 See also
7 References
8 Navigation

Overview
The menu is divided into three tabs: "Worlds", "Realms" and "Servers". Clicking "Play" on the main menu brings the player to the "Worlds" tab regardless of whether worlds exist.

Option

Description

Returns the player back to the main menu.

Opens the Social drawer which shows all friends and their joinable multiplayer games.

Worlds
The "Worlds" tab in list mode
This tab lists all worlds in order of last edited. Worlds set visible to LAN players in the same local network appear at the top of the list, as well as joinable friend's worlds. Up to 12 worlds are shown per page; navigating is possible at the bottom of each page.

Option

Description

Brings the player to the "Create from..." screen where the player can choose to create a new world from scratch or from a world template.

Allows the player to import a .mcworld world file from the device folders. Only available for Windows devices.



Toggles the world layout between list and grid. In grid view, the size of the world is not shown.

Allows the player to enter the world. The thumbnail can be picked in the Edit world screen from local screenshots, will be taken automatically after exiting the world, or uses a default image depending on the world template.
The world button also shows one or more tags indicating the game mode, experimental features, Hardcore (as well as days played or game over), multiplayer state (LAN, friend's, or friend of friend's), and cloud availability. Local worlds show the last edited date and file size (list only); multiplayer worlds show the host and player count.



Allows the player to edit the world's settings in the Edit world screen. This button is not available when using a controller in grid view, instead, the player needs to press /// on the selected world.

Allows the player to navigate between pages in the worlds list.

Create new world
The "Create from..." screen
Upon clicking the "Create new world" button, the player is taken to a screen with the option to create a new world from scratch, or create worlds from a Marketplace or custom world template. There are three tabs for templates.

Option

Description

Brings the player to the Create new world screen to create a new world from scratch.

Initates downloading the selected template, and opens the Create new world screen to create a world with the selected template. When the player does not own this template, the purchase page in the Marketplace will be opened instead.

Opens the template page in the Marketplace where the player can rate it.

Opens the search menu in the Marketplace where the player can search for more templates.

Filters the owned templates list based on search results.

Allows the player to import a .mctemplate world template file from the device folders. Only available for Windows devices.

Filters the owned templates list with four options:
Show all, Downloaded, Imported, and Purchased from the Marketplace.

Sorts the templates in alphabetical order, either ascending or descending. The default option sorts templates on acquired date.​[upcoming: BE 26.50]

Takes the player to the top of the templates list.

Loads more available templates.

Realms
The "Realms" tab of the Play screen without access to a Realm
The main page of an owned Realm in the "Realms" tab
This tab lists all Realms by name along with the world. The main page of each Realm shows the amount of online players as well as information about the activated world and the Realm. When the player does not have access to a Realms server, this screen shows information about a Minecraft Realms subscription as well as the option to subscribe.

Available without access to a Realm

Option

Description

Opens the Minecraft Realms purchase screen, with the option to purchase a Realms Core or Realms Plus subscription.

Opens the Realms invites tab in the inbox, where the player can join foreign Realms using invitations.

Allows the player to join a foreign Realm by invite code.

Available with access to a Realm

Option

Description

Opens a menu with the options to add a new Realms subscription, join a foreign Realms server, or open the Minecraft Realms information screen.

Allows the player to enter the selected Realms server.

Opens the Realms Hub from the selected Realm. This allows access to social features and Realm management.

Servers
Main article: Server list
The "Servers" tab of the Play screenThis tab opens the server list, where the player can join the featured servers or (except on consoles) join other server by entering a server address.

Option

Description

Brings the player to the Add Server screen to add a new server to the list.

Let the player join the selected server from the Servers tab.

Brings the player to the Edit Server screen to change the name and address for the selected server.



Toggles whether to show or hide the server's IP address.

History



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: minor changes and pre-Ore UI history

Bedrock Edition1.21.60Preview 1.20.30.22
 Enabled a new UI for the Play screen "Worlds" tab.Preview 1.20.60.21
 Added the Friends drawer, available in the Play screen.Preview 1.20.80.21
 Play screen "Servers" tab has been updated to match Ore UI.Preview 1.21.30.24
 Create from Template screen has been updated to match Ore UI.Preview 1.21.40.22
 Play screen "Realms" Tab has been updated to match Ore UI.1.21.90Preview 1.21.90.20
 The top world now has a double-sized button in grid mode.Preview 1.21.90.25
Removed the toggle to show LAN worlds on the Play screen; they are now always shown.??
Reverted the change to the top world button size.26.10Preview 26.10.23
Hardcore worlds now display the amount of days played if the game rule is enabled.April 22, 2026
Renamed "Servers" tab to "Discover", "Multiplayer Experiences", or "Creator Multiplayer", which  differs per player.Preview 26.30.28
Each world button now shows an icon if it is not synced to the cloud or only available in the cloud.June 29, 2026
Renamed the servers tab back to "Servers"26.50Preview 26.50.20
Grid layout can now show two, three, or four columns of worlds depending on the GUI scale.
World templates are now sorted on acquired date by default.
Issues
Issues relating to "Play screen" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Every time the Play menu is opened, there is about a 1% chance that the World tab icon  will change to
Gallery
Historical screenshots



			The World Selection screen before v0.7.0



			World Selection screen from v0.7.0 to v0.8.1



			World Selection screen in v0.11.0 (Moved the edit button)



			The Realms screen when not logged in from v0.7.0 to v0.7.5



			The Realms screen when logged in from v0.7.0 to v0.7.5



			World Selection screen in 1.12.0



			Importing worlds in 1.2.0



			Importing worlds in 1.2.0



			The "Worlds" tab of the "Play" menu before the Ore UI redesign



			The "Friends" tab of the "Play" menu before the Ore UI redesign



			The "Servers" tab of the "Play" menu before the Ore UI redesign



			An owned Realm in the Realms tab before the Realms Hub update



			A joined Realm before the Realms Hub


See also
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition UI refresh
References

 MCPE-162670 – Random LAN Games may appear – resolved as "Unresolved".

 MCPE-174595 – Missing Export and Import buttons on mobile devices – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MCPE-180257 – Missing Export and Import buttons on Chromebooks – resolved as "Works As Intended".

Navigation