"Confetti" redirects here.  For the Minecraft Dungeons cosmetic, see Dungeons:Confetti (Mob flair).


This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

15 Year Party Supplies

Developer(s)

Oreville Studios

Price

Free

Release date

May 21, 2024

Website page

15 Year Party Supplies in Minecraft Marketplace | Minecraft

Article

"Free party add-ons"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "15 Year Party Supplies",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Oreville Studios article, displayed as Oreville Studios)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 21, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=4ecbca45-ecd1-497e-b62d-61845859e10e 15 Year Party Supplies in Minecraft Marketplace  Minecraft]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/free-party-add-ons \"Free party add-ons\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "15 Year Journey Party Supplies 3.jpeg"
    ]
}

Key art
15 Year Party Supplies is an official add-on developed by Oreville Studios released to celebrate the 15th anniversary of Minecraft. Multiple features from this add-on are used in the 15 Year Journey map.

Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Items
1.2 Blocks
1.3 Mobs

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Promotional images
6.2 Screenshots

7 References
8 See also
9 Navigation

Additions
Items
 15 Year Balloon
Spawns balloons in a "15" shape attached to the block below when used.
While balloons can be placed in the air, they don't float upward, unlike balloons in Minecraft Education.
 15 Year Candle
Used to craft 15 year cakes
Crafted using one string, one honeycomb, and one gold ingot.
Cannot be placed on its own or on cakes, it is only a crafting ingredient.
Has the Common Rarity, but uses a orange text in-game.
15 Year Party Supplies Handbook
Guides player on how to craft a 15 year cake, and the various items party villagers give.
 Black Party Horn
Shows an animation of the party horn being blown and extending when used.
Has a short cooldown.
Each party horn plays a different sound, to add variety.
 Blue Balloon
Spawns a blue balloon attached to the block below when used.
 Blue Party Horn
Shows an animation of the party horn being blown and extending when used.
Has a short cooldown.
 Bubble Machine
Spawns a bubble machine when used on a block.
Continuously blows bubble particles in one direction.
Destroyed when damaged.
Can be toggled off by using it.
 Bubble Wand
Blows bubbles in front of the player when used.
Has a short cooldown.
Candy
Dropped from pinata creepers.
Can be eaten to restore 1 () .
Grants Jump Boost for a short duration.
 Confetti Cannon
Creates confetti particles in one direction when used.
Has a short cooldown.
 Confetti Machine
Spawns a confetti machine when used on a block.
Continuously shoots confetti particles in multiple directions.
Destroyed when damaged.
Can be toggled off by using it.
 Creeper Balloon
Spawns a creeper-themed balloon attached to the block below when used.
 Cupcake
Grants Speed for two seconds.
Can be eaten to restore 2 () .
If the player eats too many cupcakes or candy within a short amount of time, the player gets Slowness instead of the food's respective effect.
Party Villager Spawn Egg
Spawns a party villager when used, just like any other Spawn Egg.
Has the Epic Rarity.
 Pinata Creeper
Spawns a pinata creeper when used.
Can be hung by tying it to a fence or wall in the air.
The only source of Candy.
 Red Balloon
Spawns a red balloon attached to the block below when used.
 Red Party Horn
Shows an animation of the party horn being blown and extending when used.
Has a short cooldown.
 Yellow Balloon
Spawns a yellow balloon attached to the block below when used.
Cannot be obtained from Party Villagers, only from the Creative Inventory.
 Yellow Party Horn
Shows an animation of the party horn being blown and extending when used.
Has a short cooldown.
Blocks
 15 Year Banner
A banner with the 15th anniversary logo design.
Cannot be placed on the sides of blocks.
Doesn't need a block for support.
 15 Year Cake
Crafted using one 15 Year Candle and one cake.
Summons a party villager when lit, who consumes the cake upon being spawned.
Has the Epic Rarity.
All of the cakes added in this addon (except cupcakes) cannot be eaten by players.
 Bunting Green
A bunting used for decoration.
Can be placed like a Hanging Sign, but has no Collision Box.
Doesn't need a block for support.
 Bunting White
A bunting used for decoration.
Can be placed like a Hanging Sign, but has no Collision Box.
Doesn't need a block for support.
 Cake Slice
A slice of cake with a small berry on top.
 Confetti
Can be placed in patches of 1, 2, 3, or 4 on a block, similar to Pink Petals, Wildflowers, and Leaf Litter.
They connect to fences and walls. This is a known issue with most add-on/mashup items.
 Giant Cake Center
The center of Giant Cakes.
 Giant Cake Corner
The corner of Giant Cakes.
 Giant Cake Edge
The edge of Giant Cakes.
 Green Present
A green present with a white wrapping.
 Pile of Presents
A pile of three presents. These include a Red Present, A Green Present, and a Purple Present.
 Purple Present
A purple present with a pink wrapping.
 Sparkler
​[more information needed for Bedrock Edition]
 Red Present
A red present with a yellow wrapping.
 White Present
A white present with a green wrapping.
Mobs
 Party Villager
Spawns when a 15 year cake is lit using flint and steel, consuming the cake upon being spawned. This happens even if there are already party villagers in the world.
Gives individual anniversary items, similar to trading but without any currency, they give you the items upright.
Cannot be hurt or killed, and doesn't despawn. Instead the player can be despawn it on command in the bottom of the item UI.
Quotes
“Celebrate Minecraft's 15 Year Anniversary with the party supplies add-on!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos





History
Bedrock EditionMay 21, 2024
Added the 15 Year Party Supplies add-on to the Marketplace.October 18, 2024
15 Year Party Supplies was updated.
Trivia
Several years prior to the add-on, the graphic novel Minecraft: Volume 1 depicted confetti as an in-game block on a server.
Gallery



			Pack icon for the add-on.


Promotional images



			Key art for the add-on.



			Closeup of the party villager



			Zuri and Efe reacting to the summoning of the party villager.



			Ari shooting confetti above Noor, while Makena claps.



			Sunny, Zuri, and Ari beating a creeper pinata.



			Sunny and Ari blowing bubbles while Efe places down a bubble machine.


Screenshots



			A beacon made out of cake blocks.



			A wrench and bolt made out of confetti.


References

 "Wouldn't be a party without party supplies 🎉 The free 15 Year Party Supplies add-ons pack is now available! Made in partnership with @OrevilleStudios, add party hats and other essentials into any of your worlds. We’re talking confetti, birthday cakes, party banners, and many other party props: https://aka.ms/PartySupplies #Minecraft15"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), May 21, 2024

See also
15 Year Journey
Birthday skin packs
Navigation