This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Screenshots of each area

15 Year Journey

Map maker(s)

Oreville Studios

Price

Free

Release date

May 20, 2024

Tags

Mobs
Party
Games
Time

Genre(s)

Minigame
History

Players

Single player, Multiplayer (1-4)

Website page

15 Year Journey in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Free map full of nostalgia"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "15 Year Journey",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Oreville Studios article, displayed as Oreville Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 20, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Mobs\n* Party\n* Games\n* Time",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Minigame\n*History",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player, Multiplayer (1-4)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=68b4c786-53b4-4d73-b95c-b060d7cc99c6 15 Year Journey in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/free-map-full-nostalgia \"Free map full of nostalgia\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "15 Year Journey Introduction.png"
    ]
}

Key art
15 Year Journey is a free Marketplace map developed by Oreville Studios that celebrates Minecraft's 15th anniversary. The map consists of seven main areas, each with varying minigames and trivia on the game's history. The map was released on May 20, 2024, as part of the sixth day of 15 Days of Minecraft.

Contents

1 Courtyard
2 Hub

2.1 Stickers
2.2 Gift Shop

3 The Aquarium

3.1 Stickers
3.2 Exhibits
3.3 Feeding Frenzy

4 Caves and Cliffs

4.1 Stickers
4.2 Exhibits
4.3 Cave Parkour
4.4 Library Labyrinth
4.5 Minecart Mayhem
4.6 Dig Down

5 Alpha

5.1 Stickers
5.2 Exhibits
5.3 Alpha Minecraft

6 Buzzy Bees

6.1 Stickers
6.2 Exhibits
6.3 Buzzy Bees (minigame)

7 Dimensions

7.1 Nether Area
7.2 End Area
7.3 Stickers
7.4 Exhibits
7.5 Strider Stroller

7.5.1 Items

7.6 Ring Rush

8 Exploration

8.1 Stickers
8.2 Exhibits
8.3 Find the Wandering Trader and his Llamas
8.4 Pot Shuffle
8.5 Mooshroom Madness
8.6 Sniff and Seek
8.7 Excavation
8.8 Temple Dash

9 Videos

9.1 Shorts

10 Quotes

10.1 External
10.2 Internal

11 Trivia
12 Gallery

12.1 Promotional images
12.2 Renders

12.2.1 Blocks
12.2.2 NPCs
12.2.3 Entities

12.3 Screenshots

12.3.1 Hub
12.3.2 The Aquarium
12.3.3 Caves & Cliffs
12.3.4 Alpha
12.3.5 Buzzy Bees
12.3.6 Dimensions
12.3.7 Exploration

13 References
14 See also
15 Navigation

Courtyard
Upon starting the map, the player is greeted with a cutscene of Steve inviting Alex, Efe, and Zuri into a large garden outside the museum, before being greeted by the Party Villager. Walking forward toward the museum, the player finds many visual gags. An iron golem dressed as a security guard is circling a fountain, while a ravager is cowering on top of it, the golem seemingly annoyed by the situation. Many parrots are dancing on top of a bench and bunting, nearby several illager thieves trying to help one of theirs climb down from a rope, offering water buckets. Makena is trying to take a photo of a black cat, a witch, a warden, and a cow, telling them "everyone line up and say "Creeper", let's capture this moo-mentous moment! Give me your biggest smile and strike a pose!"
After climbing a set of stairs into the building, two more iron golem guards open the doors to the Hub, where the Party Villager is waiting for the player. Another cutscene follows, where the player is given the sticker book item, before the camera shows off the interior of the Hub, as the Party Villager proclaims "Happy birthday, Minecraft!"

Hub
Party villager handing the player a popup book at the start of the map.
The Hub is the central area containing portals to all other six areas, with a gift shop in the center. Amongst the portals, many visual gags and Easter Eggs can be found. As the player enters, they can find a villager chasing a child in a circle, stuck on a balloon while Steve and Alex are reading the sticker book together. Behind them is a villager wearing a cake happily, while allays give many characters and mobs cake. Zuri, Kai, a chicken, and a pig are enjoying cake, only for a creeper to be startled when it is given a slice. At the same table, a wandering trader is given a full cake, which is taken by the trader's two llamas.
At another table, an enderman waits impatiently for a cake, before teleporting it away and eating under the stairs. A strider is overjoyed by cake, while a piglin flips it using their sword. Noor gestures for cake before tossing it upward and eating it whole, while Ari pats their stomach after eating and a skeleton shoots an arrow. Between both tables is a third table, where three bees are circling around a cake, eating it in quadrants. Efe waits patiently for cake before cheering when it arrives, while Sunny eats it the same way as Noor and a drowned eats it using a trident like a fork. Behind this table are many chef villagers and allays coming back and forth to deliver cake endlessly.
Between Alpha and Dimensions, a villager cries over a fallen cake. Between the Aquarium and Exploration, one villager is dancing, and another is trying to reach for a balloon. By Caves & Cliffs, one villager is holding too many presents.
Once the player has visited every area and returns to the hub, the player is rewarded with a short cutscene congratulating the player, credited to Oreville Studios. "You've visited all of the areas! What a journey! Thank you for celebrating 15 Years of Minecraft with us! We hope you had fun! We've had a wonderful time creating this project, and appreciate reviews! Let us know what you think! If you had fun, consider checking out more Oreville Studios content on the Marketplace to support us! Here's to 15 more years of Crafting, Mining, and Endless Creativity! Happy Birthday, Minecraft!"

Stickers
One sticker can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

15 Year Cake

Found automatically after entering the hub and obtaining the sticker book.

Gift Shop
In the center of the Hub is a gift shop, staffed by Party Villager. There, they are tasked with collecting all 53 stickers, being rewarded a different Baby Mob for each milestone. Across from the Party Villager, who helps keep count of stickers collected, there are two anvils with floating name tags, that the player can use to name Baby Mobs if desired. If they want to remove a baby pet, they are given an item that can despawn them while inside of the gift shop.

Image

Name

Stickers needed

Behavior

Notes

Baby Zombie

8

Baby Enderman

16

Can be seen walking with an adult enderman in the opening.

Baby Zombie Piglin

24

The correct name for the mob would be baby zombified piglin. As well, it has a visible ear made out of bones, which the vanilla mob lacks.

Baby Ghast

32

The design for this mob contradicts the depiction from Minecraft Dungeons.

Baby Creeper

48

Makes an appearance in the Exploration area, seemingly as a toy.

The Aquarium
The Aquarium entrance.
Inside The Aquarium.
The player obtains a Camera after the entering the area, which can be used to photograph sea life and obtain their corresponding stickers. Upon getting the camera, the player can approach Steve at a banister, Alex on a bench, Noor gazing at aquatic mobs, Ari inside of a tunnel through the display near the heart of the sea exhibit, and a villager scuba diving inside of the display, near the dolphin exhibit. Inside the display itself, turtles, tropical fish, and dolphins swim around, with recreational conduits, shipwrecks, and tridents present. At the end of the hallway Ari is inside is a display of several coral blocks, with dancing glow squids and stairs to a second floor.
By the coral exhibit, Kai is sitting on a bench, and across from them is a marine biologist who explains coral bleaching. To the left of the biologist, Makena is at another display of fish in front of another display featuring guardians, drowned, and axolotls. Opposite to those is the Feeding Frenzy minigame, which can be initiated by a villager NPC. Down another flight of stairs, many more exhibits can be found, with Zuri admiring squids and Efe looking into the Feeding Frenzy minigame. Exiting from here returns the player to the entrance, but walking straight to the other side leads to a room with an animatronic guardian above the door.
Entering into the guardian room, the perspective changes to a locked, third person angle using the camera command. Inside the room is an elder guardian, whose eye watches the player as they cross. Outside of the guardian exhibit is Sunny, watching several turtles on a mock beach, while a dolphin tries to jump through hoops. Behind them is another shipwreck display, and then another glow squid display, which leads back to the marine biologist.

Stickers
Twelve stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Glow Squid

Found by photographing a Glow Squid.

Turtle

Found by photographing a Turtle.

Axolotl

Found by photographing an Axolotl.

Frog

Found by completing the "Feeding Frenzy" minigame.

Elder Guardian

Found on the glass tank in the Elder Guardian room (found to the right of the area entrance with a Guardian animatronic above the exhibit's entrance).

Dolphin

Found by photographing a Dolphin.

Pufferfish

Found by photographing a Pufferfish.

Treasure Chest

Found by photographing the open chest next to the shipwreck following the area entrance.

Tropical Fish

Found by photographing any variant of Tropical Fish.

Salmon

Found by photographing a Salmon (apart from those found in the Coral Reef tank).

Coral

Found by lowering water temperature and CO2 levels in the coral reef tank via a lever.

Heart of the Sea

Found by photographing an activated Conduit.

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

Dolphin

Dolphins love to guide you to Buried Treasure when fed raw fish. Follow their lead and discover the ocean's secrets together! But beware, these aquatic companions are not just guides, they're pranksters too! Keep a watchful eye on your belongings, as Dolphins might just playfully snatch your items away! Did you know, Dolphins will give players a speed boost in nearby waters?

Dolphins search for dropped items only.

Trident

A true aquatic rarity! Exclusive to the Drowned mobs, only 15% of them spawn with a trident in hand, and a mere 25% drop it when defeated. The odds? A tiny 3.75% chance (or 3 in 80) - making Tridents a true treasure of the deep!

As of Tricky Trials, tridents are no longer exclusive to drowned.

Heart of the Sea

Obtained from Buried Treasure, this elusive item is the key to crafting the Conduit - a powerful underwater Beacon that grants enhanced vision, water breathing, and swift mining speeds.

Conduits are not beacons.

Coral

Coral Reefs add a burst of colour into the ocean. Dive deep and discover the vibrant hues that these aquatic wonders brought to the game's underwater landscapes. Coral can only be obtained with the Silk touch enchantment!

Marine Biologist

Elevated water temperature and CO2 levels can induce coral bleaching, causing the reefs to lose their vibrancy. Interact with the Lever to restore life to the Coral Reef!

An NPC standing next to a lever, which can increase or decrease the temperature of the salmon exhibit. If increased, the salmon die, becoming skeletons swimming in yellow water. If decreased, they come back to life.

Drowned

Persuade a Zombie to take an impromptu underwater vacation for 30 seconds, and brace yourself for a mysteriously transformation. Shaking like a Zombie Villager on the mend, in just 15 seconds, a Drowned will emerge, ready to roam the ocean depths!

Guardian

Meet the Elder Guardian's younger sibling! Startle them, and watch their spirited charge, a comedic nod to their elder sibling's imposing presence. These mischief makers are always prepared for battle in their own, slightly adorable, way.

Guardians are not a neutral mob, they attack regardless of "being startled."

Axolotl

The Axolotl is an adorable underwater ally that will help you to battle off aquatic foes. They can recover health when they are damaged by playing dead!

Tropical Fish

These finned wonders flaunt a stunning array of patterns and hues. Tropical fish come in various shapes, sizes and colours - there are 2,700 naturally occurring variants of tropical fish in Minecraft! Tropical fish can also swim against the current.

Salmon

Did you know? Salmon show their incredible determination by swimming up waterfalls (5 blocks to be exact!) - all to reach their spawning ground.

Pufferfish

Stay alert! Although Pufferfish will never seek out other mobs to attack, they do have a defensive secret hidden up their spikey sleeve. Startle them, and they'll puff up, dealing Poison damage. Keep a safe distance unless you fancy an underwater dance with these masters of self-defence!

Frog

A leap into the facts: Frogs will spawn without legs, and during their tadpole phase, these limbless hoppers explore the waters until they're ready to take the plunge into full-fledged Froggy-ness! Once grown, Frogs have the ability to jump 8 blocks. They also love snacking on small slimes!

Elder Guardian

Hidden deep within the Ocean Monument lies the Elder Guardian, a vigilant protector of the treasure within. Watch out for its Laser Beams, rumor has it, that's just its way of saying "Hello"! Approach with caution and discover the secrets guarded by Minecraft's underwater boss.

It is not rumored that elder guardians are greeting the player by attacking them. Elder guardians are not classified as a boss.

Turtle

Fun fact: Turtles have a special bond with their birthplace, returning to the same beach where they were born to lay their own eggs. Additionally, you can craft a Turtle Shell Helmet from pieces of the Turtle's shell - giving you an underwater breathing bonus.

A dolphin jumps to the rings on exhibition.

Feeding Frenzy
Playing Feeding Frenzy.
In Feeding Frenzy, the player mans a "Frog Blaster," a turret in the shape of a temperate frog, reminiscent of the game Hungry Hungry Hippos, above the frogs' exhibit. Several balloons begin to appear, which the player can collect using the frog's tongue. Slime Balloons score the player ten points, whereas Magma Balloons lose them twenty. After thirty seconds, the minigame ends, and the player is rewarded with the frog sticker.

Caves and Cliffs
Caves & Cliffs entrance.
Inside Caves & Cliffs.
Caves and Cliffs opens with a museum of various cave-related objects, including an exhibit on the world height. Going up two sets of stairs on either end of the entrance, the player can find a second floor with portraits of a cave base, a block of diamond, an axolotl in a lush cave, and a glow squid, as well as a cardboard cutout of Steve getting knocked off a mountain by a goat. Heading forward, many more non-interactive displays are visible, including Steve fighting several monsters in a cave, Steve getting electrocuted with a lightning rod on top of a burned village house, and several 3D goat horns. In front of the latter display is an exhibit built into the entrance to the Cave Parkour minigame, and beyond that are more exhibits, including one with an interactable Ari NPC, and two portraits of a goat with a crown and a snowy cave.
Passing by a statue of a goat, the player finds four more exhibits, one built into a display of a lush cave biome. Heading forward they cross a wooden bridge into a divided area. To the left, the player passes two more exhibits and enter the area for the Library Labyrinth minigame. Surrounding it are two more pathways, circling around through a higher library. On the left side is a portrait of a miner villager exclusive to this map, and on the right another portrait of a librarian wearing red. Beyond them are bookshelves, candles, and piles of books on the floor, with Noor looking at a bookshelf. Talking to Noor, they say "Hey, over here! Ever wonder if these bookshelves hold more than just books? There could be something hidden by the dusty covers..." This serves as a hint to a lever, on the opposite path of the library, which opens a secret door holding a sticker. In the middle end of the library, the player can also look over the entrance of the minigame, or watch active gameplay through a window.
Leaving the library and going to the right of the bridge, players see a replica of a stronghold, with silverfish circling a lamppost and an exhibit of Alex in a portal room. Continuing forward, the player finds a display of spiders next to an exhibit on silverfish, with a silverfish emerging from an infested chiseled stone bricks, then entering and exiting through two mouseholes out of the exhibit. To the right of that is another bridge, where the player finds Zuri, who proclaims "Wow, these paintings look so lifelike... Almost as if you could step right into it!" This serves as a hint to the sticker hidden inside the portrait.
Continuing from there, the player passes a portrait of a real life amethyst geode, and a cave spider exhibit next to an exit. Beyond that you'll enter an area marked "Geodes and Fossils!," including a large amethyst geode and many displays on fossils. Circling around the geode, the player can find the entrance to the Minecart Mayhem minigame, Makena looking out into an observatory of an ancient city, and an elevator that leads into the deep dark, housed within a redstone mine. Stepping onto the elevator causes it to descend, but if the player needs to lower it from the bottom or raise it from the top, a lever on a lectern made of logs are available.
Inside the deep dark area is an exit, the entrance to the Dig Down minigame, a window, and a hallway covered in sculk, guarded by police tape and hazmat villagers mopping up veins. The player enters another museum, but this one full of sculk and moody lighting, giving the impression of an infestation or tragedy. Of note is a statue of Steve cowering before a Warden, one of the pillars from the ancient city, and several ordinary exhibits.

Stickers
Eleven stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Diamond Pickaxe

Found by completing the "Dig Down" minigame.

Diamond

Found on the wall of the elevator leading underground.

Amethyst

Found on the amethyst geode in the center of the "Geodes and Fossils" exhibit.

Enchantment Book

Found on the wall of a secret room hidden by an entrance made of bookshelves. The entrance is next to the bookshelves that Noor is facing. To open the entrance, switch the lever near the bookshelves on the opposite wall.

Torch

Found by walking into the painting of copper blocks that Zuri is facing.

TNT

Found by completing the "Minecart Mayhem" minigame.

Powder Snow Bucket

Found in the "Cave Parkour" minigame in the second area in the parkour (containing powder snow as a hazard). It is found in a secret wall entrance made of powder snow following the first 5 jumps and a detour facing forward. After going through the secret entrance, the sticker should be on the wall.

Eye of Ender

Found by completing the "Library Labyrinth" minigame.

Warden

Found on a wall to the right of the entrance to "The Deep Dark" exhibit (downstairs next to the deepslate statue display).

Bat

Found on the glass display of the "Cave Generation" exhibit (found upstairs after the area entrance).

Goat

Found by completing the "Cave Parkour" minigame.

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

New World Height and Depth

The Caves and Cliffs update introduced a new height limit. Previously the world was contained between Y-Levels 0 to 255. It is not Y-Levels -64 to 320, giving you even more room for exploration in every direction!

The exhibit is a replica of a chunk, with the player's cursor tracking the world height as they gaze up or down.

Candles on Cake

A sweet surprise in the Caves & Cliffs update - Candles can now be placed on Cakes, allowing you to create a warm and cozy ambience for in-game celebrations. Happy birthday, Minecraft!

Glowing Accents

Not only do Glow Squids light up the ocean, but they also bring radiance to Signs and Item Frames, adding a touch of luminescence to your creations. Use a "Glow Ink Sack" to give your signs a glow up.

Cheese Caves

Roomy chambers and cavernous passages! "Cheese" caves generate underground, creating vast pockets resembling a cheese with many holes.

Spaghetti Caves

Twisting tunnels and snaking passageways! "Spaghetti" caves generate underground, covering large distances with their winding tunnels.

Noodle Caves

Navigate narrow passages in an underground web! "Noodle" caves generate underground, cerating a complex net of interlocking tunnels.

Height Limit

Here we see a mini-model of the new height limit. On the left, the old Y-Levels 0 to 255 limit, and on the right, the new -64 to 320 limit. Now, there's even more space for you to master your Water Bucket landings - giving you approximately 0.2 extra seconds to make it stick!

Lightning Rod

Take control of the elements, and protect your creations from Thunderstorms, with a trusty Lightning Rod! Disclaimer: No Steves were harmed during the making of this set!

Goats

Goats are the playful mountaineers of Minecraft's peaks, known for their unexpected headbutts. Just remember, if you hear a sudden "baaa", it might be wise to watch your back!

A screaming goat brays nearby, but not on command.

Powdered Snow [sic]

Powdered Snow is a chilly trap for the unwary, use your snow-proof Leather Boots to safely traverse across the surface. Step carefully, or you'll be a part of the next icy exhibit. Clearly someone forgot to gear up!

A villager is freezing to death inside of powder snow blocks.

Deepslate

Caves and Cliffs added many new stones into the game, including Deepslate! Starting at Y-Level 8, Deepslate will spawn instead of Stone. Whilst stone only takes 0.6 seconds to mine with a Stone Pickaxe, Deepslate takes twice the amount of time. Make sure to upgrade your tools before venturing too far down!

Ari will appear next to the display. If interacted with, Ari will say "I remember the days when Stone was just Stone! Look at all these new Stone blocks!"

Ari was not an established character until 2022.

Lush Caves

Where Glow Berries illuminate your path, and adorable Axolotls swim by, the Lush Caves are a must-visit for any adventurer. Here, you can harvest berries for food and light, and if you're lucky, befriend an adorable Axolotl.

Monster Spawners

A rare delight to the avid cave explorer! Monsters spawn where you are within 16 blocks of a Spawner, appearing in a 9x3x9 area around it. Placing a single torch will disable the spawner.

Bats

This friendly critter will add a touch of mystery to your underground explorations. Bats use their echolocation to detect players approaching them, even when invisible! Startle them and they will fly away!

Dripleaves

Each step tests your skill in the Lush Caves biome, tread lightly or you'll take an unexpected dip. Dripleaves will only support your weight for 1 second when stood on.

Eye of Ender

After your endeavours of conquering the Nether Fortress, and getting burnt to a crisp, hunting down elusive Endermen and parlaying with greedy Piglins, you now stand before a 20% chance of seeing all your hard work shatter into thin air. Alas! The Eye of Ender is your magical compass. Crafter from Ender Pearls and Blaze Powder, it guides you to a Stronghold, and activates the End Portal.

End Portal Frame

The doorway to another dimension! Found in Strongholds, the End Portal Frame waits patiently for you to insert an Eye of Ender. once all frames are filled, the End Portal is activated.

Libraries

Treasure troves of knowledge, and located in Strongholds, libraries hold many secrets of enchantment and lore... or a Compass and some stray pieces of Paper!

Enchantment Rooms

This is where the magic happens! Enhance your gear and weapons to become super-powered. Or at least semi-powered, if you can't find 15 Bookshelves for maximum results. The "super" part will cost you... approximately 405 Sugar Cane and 45 Leather! A small price to pay for super-powered gear! And go mine that Lapis Lazuli you've been avoiding, you will need that too!

Strongholds

Strongholds are the gateway to the End. Fight your way through the chambers and find yourself in front of the End Portal. Each of the 13 slots in the End Portal Frame has a 10% chance of containing an Eye of Ender. Unless you are one in a trillion, make sure to stock up on extra Eye of Enders, or your adventure might come to an abrupt end!

Pulling a lever causes Alex to eat a chorus fruit, teleporting around before putting eyes of ender into an end portal frame, jumping in, and returning to her original position.

Silverfish

Silverfish are sneaky critters known for infesting blocks. Monster Spawners will generate inside of a Stronghold's End Portal room. They also infest blocks in Mountain Biomes, Igloo Basements, and Woodland Mansions. Be on your guard, or you might be in for a sneaky surprise!

Spiders

The Spider was one of the  first mobs added to Minecraft! In celebrating Minecraft's 15 year anniversary, we also celebrate the countless times these web-spinning fiends have come lunging at us out of the dark, or menacingly stared us down from the top of the cave ceiling.

Copper Blocks

Copper will oxidize over time, turning from a bright orange to a green, as they age. Wax your copper with honeycombs to keep them forever young!

Spyglass

A Spyglass will let you zoom into the horizon! Crafted with 2 Copper Ingots, and 1 Amethyst Shard, this handy tool lets you spy on distant lands, or keep an eye out for curious Creepers. Perfect for scouting out your next base, or just enjoying the pixelated scenery.

Cave Spiders

A small, yet fearsome foe lurking in the Abandoned Mineshafts. These greenish arachnids pack a venomous bite! Commonly found surrounded by sticky webs, they're a challenge for any explorer. Keep your sword ready and make sure to block even the smallest holes, or they will find a way to get you. Drinkling milk will neutralise their poisonous bite.

Fossils

Dig deep and you might find Fossils, the remains of ancient creatures. Whether you're excavating in Deserts or Swamps, Fossils add a prehistoric twist to your adventures!

Four different displays with the same description.

Amethyst Geodes

These rare formations are a miner's delight. Not just eye-catching, Amethyst Geodes have key ingredients for crafting spyglasses and tinted glass. A gem worth seeking!

Deep Dark Deepslate

Great for building but dangerous to collect, the Deep Dark has an array of shadowy blocks to find.

Contains a sculk sensor and calibrated sculk sensor, which react to movements like in vanilla, with the wool carpet even blocking vibrations.

Despite being labeled as deepslate, the display contains a sculk catalyst, sculk veins, sculk, sculk sensor, and calibrated sculk sensor.

Deep Dark Deepslate

Uncover Sculk treasures: Catalysts pulse, Veins whisper, and Sensors listen. Each block, a blend of danger and discovery.

Despite the description describing sculk blocks, the display contains various deepslate blocks.

Warden

The Warden is Minecraft's formidable underground guardian. Lurking in the Deep Dark, this blind, but sensitive creature responds fiercely to vibrations and noises. It's a challenge for even the bravest adventurers, testing your skills in evasion and strategy. Beware, the Warden demands respect! And DON'T make any noise...

The exhibit consists of three windows, each decorated with a bell. Clicking one of the bells will summon the Warden, but only one can appear at a time.

Sculk Sensors

These unique blocks detect vibrations. Use them for traps or intricate Redstone creations. The calibrated versions offer finer control, perfect for the more nuanced adventurer.

Sculk Catalyst

This unique block spreads Sculk Veins when nearby mobs perish, transforming the area with a creepy, eerie touch. Interact with the lever to see it in action. Don't worry, the chicken is a paid actor!

Pulling a lever drops a chicken and a splash potion of poison, which causes it to die and activate the sculk catalyst.

Cave Parkour

The player begins at the entrance of a cave in a mountain, with icicles reminiscent of pointed dripstone. Inside the player rushes onto blue ice platforms with several checkpoints, with a goat and enderman fighting above on a platform slightly out of view. From there, the players enter a room filled with powder snow, followed by more blue ice blobs and a lush cave. A cyan axolotl greets the player as they jump between bigger big dripleaves, while blue and gold axolotls circle two of the dripleaves.
From there the player stumbles upon Kai, seemingly exhausted, in a gold mine composed of deepslate, that leads into a dripstone cave filled with bats. As the player continues on through the dripstone cave, they quickly see more lava, before promptly crossing underneath one of the bridges in the hub. Jumping across increasingly far apart towers of deepslate, the parkour ends with an area marked with a checkerboard pattern. Once the player reaches the end, it'll be revealed to be a window visible inside the Deep Dark area, the whole parkour being set in the areas visible by the observatory.
Upon finishing the parkour for the first time, the player receives the goat sticker.
During the minigame, the song "otherside" plays in the background.

Library Labyrinth
Toast giving instructions for the minigame.
Taking an overhead view of a library labyrinth, Library Labyrinth is a maze game reminiscent of Pac-Man. The player is tasked with collecting eyes of ender, which grant five points, and must avoid zombies, who take twenty points upon attacking. As the players collect more eyes, more will generate in nearby locations, until two minutes have passed. After the minigame is completed for the first time, the player unlocks the eye of ender sticker.
During the minigame, the song "chirp" plays in the background.

Minecart Mayhem

Set inside a mineshaft suspended above lava, the player must jump between three rails and dodge minecarts. The goal is to avoid getting hit for as long as possible, with minecarts gradually appearing quicker and more numerous. Most are minecarts with TNT, but occasionally they are ridden by creepers. If hit, the player is thrown backward, most likely leading them into lava, ending the minigame. Completing the minigame rewards the TNT sticker.

Dig Down
Room encountered at the end of the minigame.
Dig Down tasks the player with mining through various blocks, using an iron pickaxe, iron shovel, iron axe, and iron sword. Each run of the minigame is randomized, with occasional diversions from just stone, gravel, and red sand. One common structure is an end portal, and another is a stronghold library with cobwebs. If the player dies, they respawn at the top of the map, but if they don't make it under the two minute time limit, the minigame will end.
The minigame is won if the player reaches the  bottom, inside of a mine filled with a treasure trove of gold, diamonds, emeralds, lapis lazuli, chests, furnaces, and coal. If the player engages with this minigame, they receive the diamond pickaxe sticker.

Alpha
Alpha entrance.
Inside Alpha.
Alpha features various references to Java Edition Classic, including two floors, eight exhibits, and several statues. The exhibit has "Minecraft" playing in the background. In the entrance, there are flowering azaleas in decorated pots and green balloons. On the second floor, the player can find a cutout labeled 15 Year Celebration, featuring several human mobs and a creeper, as well as two separate tree cutouts and a grass block. In the back are several statues, depicting a sheep, pig, skeleton, and zombie, as well as replicas of early oak trees, roses, and dandelions.
In the back end of the area is a metallic, green room where several of the characters are playing different versions of Minecraft. Alex is ecstatically playing an early version, Zuri is erratically slamming a keyboard while in a coral reef, Kai is approaching a cave, Makena is playing Cave game tech test, and Efe and Ari are slouching and watching cat videos. In the back are servers made of command blocks, and in the center is Steve, inviting the player to a computer playing Java Edition Classic. Walking up to him initiates the minigame.

Stickers
Four stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Chicken Egg

Found in the Alpha Minecraft puzzle. Obtained after bypassing the Sniffer by switching versions so there is a Chicken in its place, allowing access through the cobblestone wall (which looks like a cherry fence in modern-day Minecraft).

Creeper

Found on the glass display for "The Pig That Went Boom" exhibit.

Classic Grass Block

Found by completing the Alpha Minecraft puzzle accessible via the gaming room.

Minecraft Disc Box

Found in the gaming room on the desk next to Zuri, Efe, and canned drinks.

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

Terrain Showcase

Alpha Minecraft, retroactively referred to as "Minecraft Classic", marks the first phase of Minecraft's development where versions of the game were made available to the public. The Minecraft that first saw the light of the day may look drastically different from the Minecraft we know today, however, the bright neon-coloured palette and iconic flat clouds will forever remind us of where it all began!

Pressing a lever causes a chunk of blocks (including an oak, dirt, sand, bedrock, and several flowers) to alternate between their "alpha" textures and the modern equivalent.

–

Pre-Classic

Starting exactly 15 years ago, in May 2009, Pre-Classic Minecraft began its first development phase. This version predates Minecraft Classic. In this initial stage of development, the game was originally called "Cave Game". It was later renamed to "Minecraft: Order of the Stone", before finally adopting the name that would cement its 15-year legacy: "Minecraft".

A display of dirt, grass block, oak planks, stone, and cobblestone.

–

Early Classic

These are the blocks present in the Early Classic version of Minecraft, which took place between May 16 to May 28, 2009.

A display of sand, gravel, bedrock, iron ore, coal ore, gold ore, oak log, and oak leaves.

–

Survival Test

These are the blocks added in the Survival Test version of Minecraft, which took place between September 1 and October 24, 2009.

A display of mossy cobblestone, bricks, block of iron, bookshelf, TNT, two smooth stone slabs, an oak sign, and obsidian.

–

Multiplayer Test

These are the blocks added in the Multiplayer Test version of Minecraft, which took place between May 31 and July 11, 2009.

A display of a block of gold, glass, sponge, rose, dandelion, brown mushroom, and red mushroom.

–

Bringing on the Wool

The Wool block was first added in the Multiplayer Test version of Minecraft. during its introduction to the game on May 31, 2009, it was originally known as "Cloth". 15 years later, the array of colours has received new additions, and some colours, on the top row, have been retired, for a more refined palette!

A display of every wool block in the game's history, with the top featuring early depictions and bottom the current equivalents (or lack of equivalents).

–

The Sponge Saga

Minecraft's Sponge has had a rollercoaster history. Initially, it could absorb Water - but then this functionality was removed as the game's water physics evolved. For some time, the Sponge was purely decorative. However, in the 1.8 update, its absorbing powers were reinstated and improved. Now, it can soak up water in an area and be dried out for reuse. Long live the Sponge!

Two similar, opposing exhibits feature a different sponge. To the right, an early sponge is usable, with water being dispensed above it and not being absorbed. To the left is a modern sponge, which functions as expected.

–

From Floods to Flows

Back in the olden days, Lava and Water could fill massive areas with only one source block, creating vast oceans or fiery lakes from nothing. Today, to the dismay of griefers, fluids are much more contained, with Water flowing up to 7 blocks, and Lava up to 3 blocks, in the Overworld.

An obsidian generator.

–

The Pig That Went Boom

Did you know? The Creeper was created, almost entirely, by accident! Originally, it was supposed to be a Pig, but when the model was being built, the height and width values were mistakenly swapped, resulting in it standing up vertically. Watch this poor Pig morph into a Creeper, mirroring Minecraft's most famous model mix-up.

A pig transforms into a creeper, beginning as itself, standing vertically, turning gray, and then finally becoming a recognizable creeper.

–

Press "G" to Spawn

Humans were an old hostile mob, that were removed from the game. They looked exactly like the default Steve skin we all know and love. Humans could be spawned by pressing "G" on your keyboard in Classic Mode. They had a slightly unorthodox way of walking the world, as you can see!

Pressing a lever causes a human to spawn, running around in various directions before shrinking into nothingness.

The texture used for humans and therefore Steve is long outdated.

Alpha Minecraft
The back of the first shot of the minigame, referencing the infamous Herobrine screenshot.
Set inside a recreation of Java Edition Alpha, Alpha Minecraft is a unique minigame game where the player has to switch from Alpha to modern Minecraft and vice versa to solve puzzles to get to the end. Spawning in Alpha, the player is immediately greeted by lonely views and ominous fog, but as soon as they switch versions they find themselves in a village, where a villager is doing the Party Villager dance. Advancing forward, the player finds a wooden pressure plate, which sets off TNT, allowing them to progress.
The player finds another villager from there, housed on an arch above lava and also doing the Party Villager's dance. The path is soon blocked by lava, forcing the player to switch to alpha, then revert to the present to cross a pit by walking over a fallen tree. The player is then blocked from entering a cave with a blockade made of pointed dripstone, after entering inside the player must go back and forth several times to cross a large crevice in the cave, the trick being to stand on cobblestone spots. Soon the cave transitions into a lush cave, where the player has to climb up cave vines to ironically reach a deepslate cave at a higher location, once again having a skippable pit filled with lava. This time, after appearing on a cobblestone platform above the lava, the player must jump on slime blocks to reach a mineshaft.
Now on safe land, the player can again switch to alpha to cross a blockade of cobwebs, though this time it's technically optional. On the opposite side of the tunnel, the mineshaft has been overrun with pillagers. To avoid getting shot by them, the player must quickly switch to alpha and cross another cobblestone road, before reaching another clump of cobwebs. However, now the alpha switch is required to pass due to a slight elevation. From there the player must drop from a large height, requiring them to switch to modern Minecraft; there are hay bales present at the bottom, whereas in alpha the fall damage is great enough to kill the player.
Continuing onward, the player enters a cherry grove, where a sniffer is blocking the exit to a fence. Switching to alpha, the sniffer is replaced by a chicken running in a circle, and the fence with a cobblestone fortitude. Moving past the chicken awards the player with the chicken egg sticker. The final task is to cross a collection of lily pads, ultimately meeting up with Steve and Alex on an island house. Steve says "welcome to the party," while Alex proclaims "woo! You made it." As they say these, the player fades away, returning to the Gaming Room and ending the minigame.
During the minigame, the song "Sweden" plays in the background.

Buzzy Bees
Buzzy Bees entrance.
Buzzy Bees features a large greenhouse with bees and villagers, with the first area featuring an assortment of exotic plants, including twisting vines, chorus flowers, and nether warts. Heading straight leads inside into a larger greenhouse, with plants from many biomes, even the Nether. In the center is a large beehive, labeled "Game." Jumping down leads into the hive, a massive bee nest, overfilled with honey and honeycomb blocks. Upon entering, the player drops into one of two rooms flooded with honey. Beyond four displays of bee-related blocks lies the entrance to the Buzzy Bees minigame.
Next to the entrance are two paths, the left path leading into a farm with carrots, potatoes, beetroots, and melons underneath several cherry trees and spore blossoms. Heading west, the road is broken up by a mangrove tree with cave vines, with regular and enlarged lily pads the player can platform on. Around and underneath the tree is a moat, with a hidden room made of stone bricks directly beneath, containing a sticker. A similar section marks the end of the path, consisting only of cobblestone and lily pads.
The right path is similar to the left, but with a wheat crop in place of the melons, an exhibit explaining pollination, a growing pitcher plant, and the entrance to a hedge maze, marked by a recreation of a villager's head. Inside the maze, you can find many villagers creating elegant hedges of villagers, beehives, a hidden area infested with mycelium and mushrooms where a sticker can be found, and ultimately a massive cherry tree, which leads into the second Hive entrance. Next to the maze is a platforming section, similar to the left, but with a moderately large azalea underneath another, subtler cherry tree.

Stickers
Six stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Lily Pad

Found under the tree directly to the left of the greenhouse (if looking from the area entrance). There is an underwater entrance made of stone bricks where the sticker can be seen on the wall.

Mushroom

Found in a section of the "Villager Maze" with huge mushrooms and mycelium (resembling the mushroom fields biome). The sticker is attached to the largest red mushroom.

Honey Comb

Found in "The Hive" on an elevated honeycomb. It can be collected after doing a short parkour in the same connected room with the room's block exhibition.

Bee

Found by completing the "Buzzy Bees" minigame.

Wither Rose

Found on the back of the greenhouse's cherry blossom tree, located near wither roses.

Cherry Blossom Flower

Found on the large cherry blossom tree in the middle of the Villager Maze. The sticker is to the right of the tree's entrance to "The Hive" and involves a short parkour course to collect.

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

Crop Pollination

Bees buzz from flower to flower, gathering Pollen, before returning to the Beehive to produce Honey. After pollinating, they can speed up plant growth by flying over them. But beware - their Honey is precious to them, and if provoked, you'll find yourself facing a swarm of angry Bees!

A bee flies back and forth from a beetroot crop to their beehive.

Honeycomb Block

Made from Honeycombs, collected by Bees, this block is a key ingredient for crafting Beehives and Waxing Copper.

Honeycomb blocks are not used to craft beehives or wax copper, that is done by the honeycomb item.

Beehive

The Beehive makes a perfect addition to any farm. Let your friendly bumble buddies aid in crop growth and give them a cozy shelter from the rain!

Bee Nest

Nests can house up to 3 Bees. They are protective of their home and ready to swarm if their precious Honey is threatened! Using smoke from a campfire can pacify the bees during Honey collection, a drowsy Bee is better than an angry Bee!

Honey Block

The Honey Block has a unique appearance and properties. Players can stick to it, leading to some interesting building possibilities, and a few sticky situations!

Buzzy Bees (minigame)
The buzzy bees minigame.
In Buzzy Bees, the player is transformed into a bee, and is tasked with collecting nectar from various flowers. How much honey a player has is counted on a bar, and if that bar is filled they can return to the starting area, the Hive, to deposit nectar in exchange for 100 points. Throughout the arena, many obstacles take nectar from the player. Near the entrance are rain clouds, which travel in a circle and hurt the player if they're caught in the rain. At the end of the map is a windmill, run by vindicators and pillagers farming wheat, with banners at the front telling bees not to enter. Other areas include a campsite with hollowed logs, and several beehives.
After three minutes, the player completes the minigame, and are rewarded with the Bee sticker.

Dimensions
Dimensions entrance.
A part of the Nether section in the Dimensions area.
Dimensions features a central room with a statue displaying Steve and Alex fighting a Wither and Ender Dragon, labeled "epic battle" in standard galactic alphabet. There are Nether and End themed portals that lead to areas themed around the respective dimensions, each containing a minigame.

Nether Area
Inside the Nether area, the player is greeted by two iron golem security guards, protecting a Nether Star held inside a cage made of obsidian observers and protected by lasers. If the player walks inside, an alarm sounds. Opposite this are two exhibits of Nether related items, and next to those are several potted Nether fungi and stairs leading to a second floor. Entering from the left door, there is a portrait of wither skeletons, a "Strider Lavaquarium!", a portrait of the Wither, a cardboard cutout of a Nether Fortress, a portrait of a piglin hoarding gold, the "Alchemy Den!", and a portrait of blazes. Inside the Lavaquarium, the player finds many striders playing with zombified piglins. In the Alchemy Den, there are several brewing stands on display, chiseled blocks in the shape of the Wither, and the potion brewing exhibit.
Heading straight on the first floor, the player finds the Dimension Hopping exhibit, and beyond that is a fortress with sections for every biome and a blaze floating above a spawner in the center. In the basalt delta biome, many unique ash blocks appear, with magma cubes jumping around and twisting. In the soul sand valley biome, many soul fires emit soul particles, while a skeleton stands in a fossil. Many other, inanimate skeletons and bones lay about, as well as ruins of a structure made of nether quartz. In the warped forest biome, an enderman dances with a cake with a purple candle. In the crimson forest biome, a hoglin eats crimson fungi. As the player approaches the minigame, they see a statue of a wither skeleton, a display of wither skulls and bones, and two separate groups of piglins and wither skeletons fighting.

End Area
Inside the End area, it opens  similarly, with two iron golems guarding the Ender Dragon egg protected by lasers. However, in this case an illager burglar is being lowered by rope above the display, which is now made of basalt instead of obsidian. Instead of fungi plants, chorus plants are potted throughout. On the second floor, entering from the right, the player finds a portrait of a shulker, a portrait of endermen holding a grass block, a cardboard cutout of Steve and Alex wearing elytra with diamond armor, a portrait of Steve wearing elytra, the Dragon Breath exhibit, and a portrait of the Ender Dragon. At the end of the End section, the player can find two more exhibits, displays containing shulker boxes, chorus plants, and the inside of an end city, and the Ring Rush minigame.

Stickers
Six stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Shulker

Found in the End section of the area. Located on the glass display meant to look like the loot room of an end city.

Dragon Egg

Found in the End section of the area. Located upstairs from the section entrance on the wall next to the "15 Year Celebration" photo stand-in.

Elytra

Found by completing the "Ring Rush" minigame.

Strider

Found by completing the "Strider Stroller" minigame.

Nether Star

Found in the Nether Section of the area. Located on the right pillar near the entrance to the nether fortress (from the perspective of the Nether Portal entrance).

Blaze

Found in the Nether Section of the area. Located on a wall in the northwest tower from the blaze spawner in the nether fortress (if facing the "Strider Stroller" minigame).

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

Netherite

Netherite is the new Diamond standard, this dark and mysterious material is forged from Ancient Debris, found deep within the fires of the Nether. Fashion it into the strongest tools, weapon, and armours and you'll be truly unstoppable!

Travel Items

Have you ever found yourself lost in the adventure, delving through tunnels, or exploring new biomes, only to realise you can't remember your way home? Well, the Lodestone and Compass have your back! Place the Lodestone in your base and connect it to your Compass - you'll never be lost again! For those venturing deep into the Nether, the Respawn Anchor ensures your adventures start from the heart of the action, keeping you tethered to your newfound frontiers. With these tools, every journey promises a, mostly safe, return.

Potion Brewing

Mastering the art of Potions and alchemy can turn any humble adventurer into a wizard of wonders. Whether you're Brewing Potions of strength to tackle formidable foes, or concocting Potions of Invisibility to sneak past pesky mobs, the possibilities are as endless as the ingredients in your Cauldrons. Did you know that adding Redstone to a potion extends its duration? it's like giving your potions a little extra kick!

Cauldrons do not contain ingredients of potions, besides water. Brewing stands are used to brew.

Dimension Hopping

The Nether Portal serves as the gateway between dimensions, connecting the Overworld and the Nether. Here's a bit of trivia: every 8 blocks in the Overworld equals 1 block in the Nether, streamlining your travel plans. And remember, you're not the only one who can use it - mobs can wander through too. So, don't be surprised if you have an unexpected guest join your adventures or a curious chicken decides to explore the fiery depths. It's always a party in the Nether!

The exhibit is made of two window displays. On the right, a chicken run back and forth between the Overworld (represented by a plains biome) and the Nether (represented by a crimson forest with an adjacent bastion remnant and warped forest).
On the left, a hoglin walks back and forth similarly. In the Nether, it walks from a warped forest. In the Overworld, it walks into a village and appears turned into a zoglin.

Elytra

The Elytra has players searching far and wide through the ominous End Dimension, hunting for the solitary silhouette of an End City, in hopes of finding this sought-after treasure. Each End City bridge has a 12.5% chance of spawning a ship, which is the key to finding the Elytra. When you strap on those wings, you're not just conquering the skies, you're rewriting the rules of gravity. Here's to flying high and landing softly!

Dragon Head

As a purely cosmetic item, scaling the tallest tower in the End City, and then boarding the End Ship, is a demanding challenge. However, soaring through the sky with your newly acquired Elytra, whilst also boasting the head of the Ender Dragon, is a reward great enough to justify the travel. Redstone can power the Dragon Head - pull the lever to see it roar in action. Don't worry, it won't bite... I hope!

Pulling the lever emits a redstone frequency into the head, causing it to begin roaring.

Dragon Breath

Only the bravest adventurers dare to seek out this item. With an empty glass bottle in hand, and some precise timing, you can capture this ethereal essence during the Ender Dragon's Breath Cloud attack. This valuable ingredient is essential for brewing Lingering Potions, and leaving a lasting mist of effects, and crafting Tipped Arrows, for adding the extra punch.

End Gateway

A portal to the furthest reaches of the End Dimension - it's your ticket to exploring the outer islands, where End Cities float in the Void, and Shulkers guard hidden treasures. Just toss an Ender Pearl through, and remember to aim carefully - you wouldn't want to miss and end up taking an unintended dive into the Void! It's the ultimate leap of faith, with riches and dangers alike, on the other side.

End Crystal

The Obsidian pillars are a tell-tale sign of the Ender Dragon's iconic battle grounds. The End Crystal heals the Ender Dragon when it is within its proximity. This fragile structure combusts on impact - so beware when you're standing high up on the obsidian pillars, it's a long way down!

Strider Stroller
Strider Stroller minigame.
Strider Stroller is a minigame accessed in the Nether section. It is a 2D platformer minigame where the player must ride and jump from striders to progress through six areas: nether wastes, bastion remnant, crimson forest, warped forest, soul sand valley, and nether fortress. Golden nuggets are placed throughout the minigame and are collected when the player walks into them. Each collected golden nugget grants five points.
Striders in the minigame can be ridden automatically, and can be controlled manually as opposed to lured with a warped fungus on a stick, although the item is still visible in the player's offhand. While riding a strider, the player is able to jump, as well as leap off the strider and bounce off of them. If a player is killed during the minigame, they respawn in a safe location, but lose 30 points. In turn, they respawn riding a second strider, their original one remaining wherever they died.
Beginning in a crimson forest, the player walks away from a Nether portal and immediately get a strider to pass over a lava pool, before having to bounce to reach a higher area with a second strider. They then encounter a similar setup, now with drops of lava periodically appearing, and no immediate strider afterward, leaving the player to climb several weeping vines alone. There the player is first incentivized to use their crossbow, which fires a single arrow automatically, allowing them to pass a zombified piglin enemy. After climbing more vines, the player finds a bridge leading into the bastion remnant area. Killing a few piglins to pass, the player ultimately finds a new strider, as well as an enchanted book.
Descending further and further down the bastion, the player must cross increasingly more lava pools, before entering the basalt delta, where they are greeted by more dripping lava. Continuing forward, players can find a slightly obscured area that can be accessed by bouncing off a strider, where they find the piercing enchantment. From there, the player can proceed to the nether wastes without issue, encountering several more zombified piglins, before quickly transitioning into the warped forest.
After several simple platform sequences and encounters with zombified piglins, the player can enter the soul sand valley, immediately being slowed by soul sand. Continuing forward, the player drops down to a nether fossil and another lava pool; if they turn around into the pool they find the soul speed upgrade. Ultimately, they arrive at the Nether Fortress, and quickly find a second Nether portal, ending the minigame. Completing Strider Stroller grants the strider sticker.
During the minigame, the song "Pigstep" plays in the background.

Image

Name

Behavior

Encountered

Zombified Piglin

Walks back and forth, swinging sword if approached by player, dealing 5HP damage and giving twenty points when killed

Crimson Forest, Nether Wastes, Warped Forest, Soul Sand Valley, Nether Fortress

Piglin

Walks back and forth, swinging sword if approached by player, dealing 5HP damage and giving twenty points when killed

Bastion Remnant

Items

Image

Name

Function

Found

Gold Nugget

Grant five points

Every area

Quick Charge

Increases speed at which arrows fire

Bastion Remnant

Piercing

Arrows can pierce through multiple enemies

Basalt Delta

Soul Speed

Grants a speed buff when walking on soul sand or soul soil

Soul Sand Valley

Ring Rush
Makena gliding through Ring Rush
Set in the End, Ring Rush is an elytra minigame where players are given an elytra and a firework rocket. The player is also given Jump Boost II for the duration of the minigame. Gliding through recreations of the End's central island and a miniaturized end city, the player must pass through several rings, for a total of 3 laps. Regardless of if the minigame is being played or not, NPCs also fly through the course. An ender dragon also can be seen flying around.
The player begins the minigame on a recreation of an end ship. First, the player must fly straight through 3 rings, to a part of an end city, which is their first checkpoint. They then go through a downward spiral of rings to the right, circling the main end island. The player must then use a rocket to ascend through the rings up to another part of the end city, which is their second checkpoint. Lastly, the player uses another rocket to go through the last 4 rings, returning to the end ship to start their next lap, which also acts as a checkpoint. After the 3 laps have been completed, the player's final time is given via a chat message upon reaching the end ship.
If the player skips more than 2 rings in a row, strays too far from the path of rings, or lands in specific areas, they are teleported to their last checkpoint.
Completing the minigame unlocks the elytra sticker.
During the minigame, the song "far" plays in the background. The starting end ship contains regular end ship loot, and a brewing stand with 2 Instant Health II potions inside.

Exploration
Exploration entrance.
First room of Exploration.
Set inside an expansive museum, the player is immediately given doors into two biomes, a minigame, and a statue of Steve, labeled Steve. Behind Steve are display cases of a compass and partly filled map, and behind those is the first Wandering Trader minigame. In front of the statue are several displays built into the wall of the entrance, showing decorated pots in three sizes: regular, small, and large. The pots on the right are perfectly intact, whereas on the left two pots are shattered, and one shelf has two small pots.
Moving to the left, the player can enter a desert section, with a villager janitor is mopping sand, a camel is sitting down, and many shattered pots lead the way into a replica desert pyramid. Walking down into the temple, the player finds an extensive museum of pottery, with sherd patterns decorating the wall and many exotic pots on display, Efe marveling at special golden pots. At the end of the room are two more rooms, one containing the Pot Shuffle minigame, and another leading into a more conventional museum area, with a switch that changes the time of day inside two exhibits.
From there, the theme of the museum changes to that of a savanna, with more wandering trader minigames set in a savanna and a badland, and Noor appreciating a statue of rideable mobs. Proceeding from there, the player passes by four portraits: one of the wandering trader, another of his llamas, and then two of humanoid mooshrooms, red and brown.
After two exhibits involving mushrooms, the player finds the Mooshroom Madness minigame. Unique to this minigame, it's started by talking to an NPC, but can be freely explored by walking through its door, allowing the player to reach another area of the museum. Passing portraits of the Mooshroom Madness NPC, real mushrooms, a snow golem, and polar bear, the player enters an arctic area. Unique to this area is a frozen floor, which is slippery like actual ice blocks. Near a polar bear exhibit, Makena is gazing at frozen windows reminiscent of the freezing filter, and in the center Sunny is marveling at a replica igloo, which doubles as the snow golem exhibit. Inside the igloo, the player can climb down into the basement, and claim the zombie villager sticker.
Elsewhere in the area is another two Find the Wandering Trader minigames, set inside of an ice spikes biome. Left of that is an unfrozen flight of stairs, which lead to an exit, a sniffer statue, and the entrance to the Sniff and Seek minigame. Similar to Mooshroom Madness, the minigame has two different entrances, which this time leads to displays of sniffer eggs on hay bales, and a house made out of cherry wood with this map's baby creeper inside. Beyond that is a large room containing many exhibits and displays of live mobs, including warm frogs, slimes, and two separate sets of abnormally large rabbits. Also inside the room are two more Find the Wandering Trader minigames, and the Excavation minigame.
Leaving the moist area, the player finds several more paintings, depicting humanoid ocelot and parrot marked with their names in standard galactic alphabet, and live exhibits featuring those  mobs. If the player interacts with the exhibits, they receive the parrot sticker. Walking forward leads the player to the entrance of the Temple Dash minigame, based behind a large arrangement of armor trims. If the player hasn't played the minigame, the trim in the center appears transparent, as the artifact hasn't been collected yet. Opposite the NPC leads the player out of the jungle pyramid, revealing the jungle area from the entrance of the area, accessed from reverse. Outside, Zuri can be seen by the window.
Entering the jungle through its front door, Steve welcomes the player inside, as they march up cobblestone stairs. The jungle corner is designed around parkour, with many hidden stickers across parkour challenges. Right beside the jungle pyramid is a wooden bridge, leading to a sign pointing to a ladder across from a jungle root. Climbing up, the player follows more signs, leading them over a fallen tree above a waterfall, which goes inside the top of the pyramid and over a bridge above the entrance. After exiting the pyramid and climbing another ladder, the player enters a collection of treetop platforms. An arrow points toward a ladder, which descends the player onto a bridge suspended by chains, which ultimately leads to the jungle temple sticker. If the player decides to, they can also use nearby vines to climb on top of the trees, getting a great view of the light rays present in the map.

Stickers
Thirteen stickers can be found here.

Image

Name

Obtaining

Brush

Found by excavating the suspicious gravel in the middle of the Trail Ruins Excavation Site.

Emerald

Found by completing the "Pot Shuffle" minigame.

Jungle Temple

Found by completing the parkour throughout the "Jungle Biome".

Camel

Found by switching the lever near the Camel and Husk displays, turning the time of day to night.

Golden Apple

Found by completing the "Temple Dash" minigame.

Wandering Trader

Found by completing 6 of the "Spot the Wandering Trader" minigames.

White Llama

Found by completing 2 of the "Spot the Wandering Trader" minigames.

Brown Llama

Found by completing 4 of the "Spot the Wandering Trader" minigames.

Mooshroom

Found by completing the "Mooshroom Madness" minigame.

Parrot

Found by interacting with the Jukebox near the parrot and ocelot displays.

Sniffer

Found by completing the "Sniff and Seek" minigame.

Snow Golem

Found by shearing the Snow Golem's pumpkin near the igloo by switching the lever it's facing.

Zombie Villager

Found in the basement of the igloo near the "Snowy Taiga Biome" and "Ice Spikes Biome".

Exhibits

Image

Name

In-game description

Features

Textual errors

Desert Temple

Amidst the dunes of the Desert Biome, the Desert Temple made its debut on August 1st 2012, in the 1.3 Update. Made up of 3,078 Sandstone blocks, Desert Temples are the largest structure in the Desert Biome. Often covered in sand, its size is concealed beneath the surface. Under, what appears to be, an ornate floor pattern, hides a narrow chamber, brimming with treasure. These narrow chambers are best explored alone, one faulty step and you'll be entombed right beside that hidden treasure.

Jungle Temple

The Jungle Temple lies nestled between the lush foliage, and towering trees of the Jungle Biome. Added in 2012, in the 1.3 Update, the Jungle Temple attracted the attention of adventurers and builders alike. Back in the day, Mossy Cobblestone was a sparse resource, thus, players searched far and wide looking for these moss-covered treasure trove. When 1.3 was released, unsuspecting players looking to explore the Jungle Temple were greeted with the newly introduced Tripwire Hook, connected to a Redstone Contraption hidden between the vines, sending an unwelcome surprise toward any explorer who didn't watch their step!

Panda

Meet the cuddliest inhabitents of Minecraft's Bamboo-laden landscapes: the adorable Pandas! These roly-poly bundles of fur bring a whole new level of charm to the game with their playful antics and endearing waddles. Make sure you bring some Bamboo - they're always hungry, and a well-fed panda is a happy Panda! Did you know that Pandas in Minecraft can actually sneeze? It's true! These fuzzy friends occasionally let out a sneeze that sends nearby pandas flying - talk about a powerful puff!

Features a functional spyglass stand, there is a challenge to zoom in on a wandering trader and two trader llamas found in the exhibit.

Panda sneezes have no knockback effects.

Decorated Pots

Crafted from Pottery Sherds or Bricks, Decorated Pots are a great way to spruce up your interior design. Did you know, there are a total of 194.481 unique Decorated Pots that can be crafted? Each of the 4 slots used to craft a Decorated Pot can consist of any of the twenty Pottery Shreds [sic], in addition to the Brick.

Husk

Meet the Husk: A sun-proof Zombie that won't burn in the daylight. If that wasn't bad enough, you may one day stumble across a rare sighting: A baby Husk, riding an adult Husk! It's like a piggyback ride, but with more... bite! Don't let their size fool you, these little riders mean big trouble!

Features a lever that switches the two exhibits between day and night time.

Camel

Meet the Camel: Minecraft's two-seater ride! Standing tall at 3 blocks tall, the Camel keeps players high above the reach of melee mobs, and can step over fences like they're just lines in the sand. With a jump that turns any obstacle into mere stepping stones, every ride if a humpback leap into adventure! Hop on, there's room for two!

Mounts

Check out the line-up of Minecraft's finest Mounts, from the towering Camel to the humble Pig, all standing proud as stone statues. It's a height contest where everyone's a winner, but let's be honest, the Pig steals the show - proving that in Minecraft, size might matter, but attitude takes the trophy!

Savannah

With its sprawling grasslands and Acacia trees, bask in the Savannah's endless sunshine! Despite its arid climate, the Savannah is home to a plethora of species, including a unique, armor-wearing critter, a master at rolling into a ball for protection.

Features a functional spyglass stand, there is a challenge to zoom in on a wandering trader and two trader llamas found in the exhibit.

The name of the biome used in-game is "Savanna".

Mesa

The Mesa biome dazzles with its layers of colorful clay, standing out as a favorite for many travellers. Its large cliffs and valleys offer a wide array of building materials for the color-loving clay enthusiast. It is also a great location to stock up on Cacti!

The name of the biome used in-game is "Badlands". Badlands contain terracotta, not clay.

Brown Mushroom

The key ingredient to a yummy soup, Mushrooms thrive in the dark and can be grown practically anywhere devoid of light. They can even be found growing outside the confines of the nether ceiling!

Red Mushroom

Thriving in dim conditions, Red Mushrooms can sprout up in unexpected places. Use bonemeal on a Mushroom to turn these tiny fungi into large, tree-like structures, offering you shelter and effective mulch for you Composter!

Armor Trim

Where fashion meets function, Smithing Templates are your go-to for adding a personal flair to your armor. Deck out your favorite Diamond Chestplate with a hint of gold, or add a pop of color to your Iron Leggings - the possibilities are endless! Well, not quite endless, but with 655,360,000 variations if you start to mix and match, it's as close as it gets! To get started with Smithing Templates, simply visit a Smithing Table, where you can apply your chosen designs directly to your armor pieces.

Ocelots

Take a walk on the wild side with everyone's favorite feline friends: the Ocelots! This elusive creature has prowled the Jungle Biome since its release, back in 2012. But don't be fooled by their cute appearance - Ocelots are expert hunters! Did you know that Ocelots have a unique ability to scare away Creepers? It's like having a furry bodyguard against those explosive pests! So whether you're seeking their companionship as pets, or admiring their graceful movements from afar, on thing's for sure: Ocelots bring a purr-fect blend of charm and ferocity to the world of Minecraft.

Ocelots cannot be tamed as pets.

Parrots

With vibrant feathers and cheerful squawks, meet the delightful Parrots! Did you know that parrots in Minecraft can actually dance? That's right! Play some music nearby from a Jukebox, and these charismatic birds with bust out a move, grooving to the beat with infectious enthusiasm. So, why not invite one (or a flock) into your base? Just be prepared for some lively company, and perhaps a few unexpected renditions of your favorite tunes!

Features a jukebox that can be interacted with, causing music to play and therefore the parrots to dance.

Horse Armor

In the early days of Minecraft, Horses were noble companions, aiding players in their travels. It wasn't until the introduction of Horse Armor that these majestic steeds could truly shine, quite literally! Horse Armor used to be incredibly rare, only being found in Dungeons and Temples but now, it can be crafted from materials ranging from Iron to Diamond.

Iron, gold, and diamond horse armor were added in 13w16a, the same snapshot as horses themselves. These three horse armors cannot be crafted; in fact, they all initially had crafting recipes that were later removed in snapshot 13w18a.  In the same snapshot, they were also added to multiple structures besides dungeons and temples, including nether fortresses, strongholds, and villages. Leather horse armor was added in Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha, and is the only horse armor that is actually craftable, but is not mentioned in the text.

Foxes

Minecraft Foxes have a habit of "borrowing" items they find laying around, such as shiny objects and even weapons! Keep an eye out for your belongings when traversing the forests with these crafty critters!

Features a functional spyglass stand, there is a challenge to zoom in on a wandering trader and two trader llamas found in the exhibit.

Wolves

Wolves are Minecraft's oldest and most loyal companions, being the first tame-able mob introduced back in Beta version 1.4, on March 31st 2011. They will accompany you on your wildest adventures, and idly rest by the fire in your home base, forging an unbreakable bond. Go check up on your buddy from time to time, they'll always be waiting for you when you log back into the world - ever faithful and ready for the next big adventure together!

Witches

Masters of Potions and hiding in the dark, these mysterious figures are often found lurking deep within swampy forest. They wield potent Potions and arcane spells, but who are they, and what drives their curious craft? Who knows? Maybe you will be the one to discover their true motives.

Features a functional spyglass stand, there is a challenge to zoom in on a wandering trader and two trader llamas found in the exhibit.

Slimes

Bounce into the whimsical realm of Minecraft's gelatinous creatures, otherwise known as the Slime! Famous for their hoppy behavior and striking green color, they really know how to "gel" with the environment. Fun fact: The bigger the Slime, the more it splits when defeated, turning one big many into many little leaps.

Killer Rabbit

Watch your carrots and mind your step - veteran Java players know that in the world of Minecraft, even the bunnies have a killer instinct! They may seem like harmless creatures, with their adorable twitching noses and floppy ears. But that cute exterior only hides their ferocious nature.

Toast Rabbit

Say hello to Toast, Minecraft's secret rabbit, a heart-warming homage to a beloved pet. Grab a nametag and name a bunny "Toast", to see it don the distinctive black and white fur. This adorable easter egg is sure to make you "hoppy" as it serves as a touching tribute to a cherish companion.

Stray

Bundle up, brave souls - in the icy wilderness of Minecraft, even the Skeletons have a Bone to pick! Exclusive to cold Biomes, the Stray shoots Arrows of Slowness, making every encounter a frosty challenge. Wrapped in tattered rags and aiming with a frozen precision, they're a reminder that in the snow, every step could be a cold surprise.

Polar Bear

A cozy duo in the snow, a Polar Bear and its cub cuddle up, blending warmth with the icy landscape. Their warm bond barely lets the cold in, melting hearts with every shared step. But beware, get too close to the cub and you will feel the wrath of mama bear!

Snow Fox

Catch a Snow Fox fast asleep in the snow, taking a cozy nap under the chilly sky. Even these playful spirits need their rest, snug as a bug in a chilly rug. Shhh... let's tread quietly, it's too cute to disturb their peaceful slumber!

Regular Rabbit

These hoppy little explorers come in various colors, blending into different biomes. From the Desert, to the Snowy Tundra, Rabbits add life wherever they go. Whether you're farming Carrots or exploring a new biome, these furry friends are a delightful sight.

Find the Wandering Trader and his Llamas
The first minigame.
Played through a telescope block, Find the Wandering Trader and His Llamas is a recurring minigame throughout Exploration. In the first, set inside of a bamboo jungle, four pandas are immediately visible. Two are babies, one is brown, and one is eating bamboo. A white llama is hiding behind the hungry panda, a brown llama is on a hill behind the brown panda, and the wandering trader is balancing himself on a bamboo block. In order to zoom, the player has to punch.
The second minigame is set within a savanna, where a villager is tilling coarse dirt in what appears to be an under construction zoo, with various crates, one seemingly with an armadillo inside, and a villager painting the wall to mimic a sky. The white llama is standing behind tall grass, the brown llama hiding behind an acacia, and the wandering trader trapped inside of a wooden cage. The trader does not appear to mind, happily dancing.
The third minigame is set in a badland biome, right behind Noor. The biome is finished but empty, with many levels of red sand, more detailed cacti, and a mineshaft rigged with TNT. The brown llama is immediately visible, casually standing behind a minecart filled with raw gold and near TNT. The white llama is not too far visually but  distant physically, appearing on the top of a wooded badland plateau. The trader is even closer, stuck inside of red sand behind a cactus.
The fourth minigame is set inside of an ice spikes biome, stationed next to Makena. In the center of the biome is a small island made of packed ice and snow, with a polar bear and its cub on top. Using the telescope, the player can find the wandering trader and trader llamas on the surrounding land. The white llama is cowering behind a large ice spike in the distance, while the brown llama is peeking in and out of a collection of snow layers. The wandering trader is much more difficult to find, being frozen inside of an ice spike, visible at the  top.
The fifth minigame is located in the same area as the ice spike minigame, right behind Sunny. This one is set inside of a snowy plains biome, with a large river, white trees, and an igloo on a cliff with a ladder installation. Using the telescope, the white llama is bobbing its head behind several rocks, the brown llama surrounded by icy ferns, and the wandering trader once again frozen, this time in the river.
The sixth minigame is set inside both a mangrove swamp and swamp, with temperate and warm frogs visible, a slime jumping up and down endlessly, as well as a swamp hut with a witch, using a cauldron, and black cat. With the telescope, the white llama can be found inside of a mangrove, brown llama mostly sunken and sticking its head by a lily pad, and the wandering trader stuck inside of a large slime, jumping up and down endlessly.
Much like the previous sets, the seventh minigame is in the same room as the swamp hunt. Set inside of an old growth taiga (referred to as a "giant taiga") during night time, several foxes are still asleep, whereas a wolf consumes a bone. In subtle locations, lanterns can be seen hanging from branches, which the wandering trader is seen above using the telescope. The white llama can be found near a fox resting on a forest rock, while the brown llama is on top of an mega spruce.

Pot Shuffle
Round 1.
Unlike other minigames, Pot Shuffle can be walked in and out of, the NPC only giving instructions. The minigame itself is a simple game, where an emerald is placed inside one of three decorated pots, which are then shuffled. If the player clicks the correct pot with an emerald inside, they advance to the next round, which gradually becomes harder. Starting in round 4, two additional pots appear.
Upon completing the minigame, the player is rewarded with the emerald sticker.

Mooshroom Madness
Mooshrom madness is a minigame where the player completes a parkour by bounces from red mushrooms to brown mushrooms and uses a lightning rod to turn mooshrooms to the color of the mushrooms they’re standing on.

Sniff and Seek



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

During the game, the song “Relic” plays in the background.

Excavation



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Temple Dash
The main goal in temple dash is to defeat zombies and skeletons, and avoid dispensers that shoot out arrows and find a wild smithing template, upon beating the minigame, the player will be award with a golden apple sticker.

Videos









Shorts
Main article: Marketplace shorts


			"Dancing through 15 years of Minecraft!"



			"A blast from the past, nostalgic vibes!"



			"Journey to new heights and depths!"



			"Discover underwater wonders!"



			"Explore Minecraft's diverse biomes!"



			"Brave the Nether and conquer the End!"



			"Bee-come the bee and feel the buzz!"


Quotes
External
“It’s time for a (literal) trip down memory lane! A lot has happened in these 15 years, so we’ve packed some of our most nostalgic moments, marvelous dimensions, and accidental proudest inventions from our past into a free map by Oreville Studios. The doors to the Minecraft Museum are open and admission is free, so what are you waiting for? Let’s head inside!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Internal
“Welcome to the grand celebration of Minecraft's 15th Birthday! I'm thrilled you're here to join the party! Inside, you'll find games, surprises, and a nostalgic stroll down memory lane. Take a moment to read the sign boards, wander through the garden, and when you're ready, head inside to kick off the adventure. Let's make this celebration unforgettable!„ — Party Villager
“Gateway to Adventure!The Hub is your key toendless exploration.Travel betweendifferent worlds touncover all thewonders Minecraft hasto offer!„ — Sticker Book
“THANK YOU FOR PLAYING!
Grab a slice of Cake and relax, or collect all of the Stickers and top the Leaderboard records!„ — Toast after completing the map
“ADVENTURE AWAITS
Keep an eye out for hidden stickers to fill your collection!„ — Toast upon collecting sticker
“Welcome to my Gift Shop! Hunt for Stickers around the Museum and complete games to unlock an adorable Baby Mob companion. It's a piece of Cake!„ — Party Villager
“Dive into the wonders ofUpdate Aquatic!Capture photos ofexotic fish, then hopinto Frog FeedingFrenzy and gobble upall that delicious Slime!„ — Sticker Book
“FISH PHOTOGRAPHY
Use your camera to capture fin-tastic photos of different fish in their natural habitats, to reel in stickers!„ — Toast after the player is given the camera
“Get ready for a frenzy as you man your  own Frog Blaster! Eat as many of the oh-so-tasty Slime Balloons as you can to score point, and avoid burning your tongue on the Magma Balloons.„ — Feeding Frenzy NPC
“Venture into thedarkest depths!Challenge yourself inMinecart Mayhem, DigDown, Library Labyrinth,and the Cave Parkour!„ — Sticker Book
“Brrr... I'm not used to all this cold! Watch out for slippery ice, and sprint your way to victory through different Cave Biomes to set the fastest time. Get Ready, Set, GO!„ — Cave Parkour NPC
“Tip-toe through the tomes, avoid the undead librarians, and gather Eye of Ender to score points. It's a silent scramble!„ — Library Labyrinth NPC
“Dodge and weave through a barrage of Minecarts in a high-speed survival challenge. Keep your reflexes sharp and your path clear to avoid the mayhem. How long can you survive?„ — Minecart Mayhem NPC
“Grab your trusty pickaxe, and put your mining skills to the test - dig your way to the bottom as fast as you can to reach the treasure vault. Watch out for lava pools, and other hazards along the way.„ — Dig Down NPC
“Echoes of forgottenmemories!Rediscover the pastand journey betweenAlpha Minecraft andmodern-day Minecraft ina nostalgic trip downmemory lane!„ — Sticker Book
“THE GAMING ROOM
Approach Steve to load into Alpha Minecraft!„ — Toast shortly before the minigame can start
“Use the "Switch Versions" item to solve the puzzles and travel between current day Minecraft and Alpha Minecraft.„ — Toast upon starting the minigame
“Bee-come a Bee andbuzz through the Hive!Wander through aserene Greenhouse,stroll the VillagerThemed Maze, andgather nectar for yourvery own Beehive!„ — Sticker Book
“Bee-come the Bee! Rack up points by flying from flower to flower gathering Nectar, and returning it to the Hive. Stretch your wings and venture out further to earn more points, but watch out - Illagers and Rain Clouds don't make life easy for a Bee. Ready, Set, BUZZ!„ — Buzzy Bees NPC
“Sky-High and Lava-Rich!Soar high in Elytra RingRush and glide overlava in Strider Stroller,explore the endlessvoid and fiery depths!„ — Sticker Book
“Ride a Strider through the Nether's dangerous biomes, avoiding flowing lava and mobs. Collect Gold Nuggets along the way to score points, and reach the Nether Fortress!„ — Strider Stroller NPC
“Grab your Elytra and soar through the End Dimension. Complete three laps to set the fastest time!„ — Ring Rush NPC
“Biome discovery!Play Sniff and Seek,Spot the WanderingTrader, Temple Dash,Mushroom Madness,and Pot Shuffle!„ — Sticker Book
“Ride the elevator down and explore the depths of the Deep Dark.„ — Toast upon reaching elevator
“Keep your eyes on the prize and follow the Decorated Pot with the Emerald inside. Guess correctly after they stop shuffling to score a point. How many rounds can you survive?„ — Pot Shuffle NPC
“Approach the pots to play. Keep your eyes on the pot with the Emerald inside!„ — Toast upon entering the chamber
“Find all 15 Mooshrooms and transform to the correct type with a zap of lightning. Bounce on the Red Mushrooms to reach new heights, and harness the power of the Lightning Rod to complete this electrifying challenge in the fastest time.„ — Mooshroom Madness NPCs
“Saddle up on your Sniffer companion and forage for seeds in the Cherry Blossom Biome, with the Sniffer's nose leading the way. Burry your head in the leaves to score points!„ — Sniff and Seek NPCs
“Oh ho ho! I'm thrilled you've stumbled upon our excavation exhibit. Care to try your hand at uncovering ancient treasures? Seek out the faint markings on the ground and use the Brush to start swiping! Who knows, you might even unearth a relic or two... or perhaps something even more intriguing! Happy digging!„ — Archeologist
“Dash through moss-covered corridors, avoiding traps, and battling Zombies and Skeletons to find the Wild Armour Smithing Template. Collect Golden Apples along the way to keep your health up. Only the strongest will survive!„ — Temple Dash NPC
“Retrieve The Wild Armor Trim Smithing Template from the Jungle Temple!„ — Toast upon entering the trim museum
Trivia
3 bees sleeping in the hive (near the Buzzy Bees mini-game)
What appear to be the bees from the Buzzy Bees: Official Trailer make a cameo appearance inside of the Buzzy Bees area.
The beginning of the Alpha Minecraft minigame is set in a recreation of the original image featuring Herobrine.
The chests that normally appear during Christmas can be seen in the Exploration area's igloo.
The map was decided to not port over to Java Edition by Oreville Studios due to being "too limiting for [their] vision of the map" despite given the option to by Mojang.
Gallery



			Pack Icon of resource and behavior packs.


Promotional images



			15 year Minecraft Museum.



			Exterior of the hive exhibit.



			Aquatic exhibit.



			Ender dragon exhibit.



			Key art.



			"Spawn into the honey drenched hive of our buzziest mobs and join them on their quest to collect all the nectar before time runs out."



			Zuri in a jungle exhibit.



			Ari and Makena in a desert exhibit.



			"Welcome to the blockiest museum on the Internet!"



			"No water breathing potion in the aquarium, you can still find a sunken treasure or two..."



			"Mount the strider and attempt to reach the Fortress in a platformer version of the Nether!"



			"Swoosh through the hoops in this Ender-inspired elytra race."



			"Who knew museums could be snow much fun?"


Renders
Blocks



			Basalt Magma Block Custom


NPCs



			Alex



			Archeologist



			Ari



			Beekeeper



			Cleaner



			Cleaner



			Cook



			Efe



			Feeding Frenzy NPC



			Frog NPC[check the code]



			Gardener



			Illager Burglar



			Iron Golem Guard



			Kai



			Makena



			Miner



			Mooshroom Madness NPC



			Noor



			Ring Rush NPC



			Steve



			Strider Stroller NPC



			Sunny



			Temple Dash NPC



			Zuri


Entities



			Exploration Dungeon Skeleton


Screenshots



			The map's title screen.



			Changelog for v1.0.5 of the map.


Hub



			A player with the Jesse skin sitting on a bench.



			The Makena NPC outside the museum.



			Party Villager handing the player a popup book at the start of the map.






The Aquarium



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Caves & Cliffs



			Ari speaking about rocks.


Alpha



			The entrance of the Alpha section.



			A display next to the Terrain



			The second floor of the Alpha section.



			Skeleton and zombie statues nearby the Gaming Room.



			Ari in a cardboard cutout in the Alpha area.



			Alex playing Minecraft in the gaming room.



			Efe slouching and watching a cat video.



			Ditto, but with Ari.



			Kai playing Minecraft, with boxes resembling the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 4 versions nearby.



			Zuri playing Minecraft.



			The player looking over at Makena, from a working chair next to them.



			Minecraft Classic's title screen, as it appears in the map.



			The opening of the Alpha minigame, resembling the early versions of Minecraft, down to noticeable fog.



			Ditto, but in the modern half of the map.



			Behind the start of the Alpha minigame, referencing a famous picture claimed to show Herobrine.



			A brief puzzle involving a pressure plate.



			Beyond the village of the Alpha minigame.



			A lava pit.



			Another lava pit.



			A blockade made out of pointed dripstone.



			Inside the cave, now devoid of dripstone.



			A pit in the modern cave.



			Crossing a lava pit using the time travel mechanic.



			A hole in the lush cave section of the minigame, showing a green void.



			A section where you must climb cave vines.



			Another blockade, now in a deep cave section, with one leading "nowhere."



			Pillagers surrounding the player.



			A drop section, solvable using the swap mechanic.



			The same section, in the present.



			A house in the cherry grove.



			Inside of the cherry house.



			A sniffer blocking a path, sniffing hay bales.



			A chicken running in circles in place of the sniffer.



			The final section of the Alpha minigame.



			Steve and Alex welcoming the player.


Buzzy Bees



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Dimensions



			The Basalt Delta section of the Dimensions area.


Exploration



			Unique decorated pots at the entrance of the area.



			A janitor at the entrance to the desert.



			Abnormally designed cacti featured throughout the map.



			Artificial sky inside of the desert.



			Descending into the desert pyramid.



			Golden apple displayed inside the desert pyramid.



			Villager sarcophagus inside of the desert pyramid.



			Gilded pots inside the desert pyramid.



			The camel and husk displays.



			A Pot exhibit



			Ditto



			Ditto


References

 "Join the party and celebrate 15 Years of Minecraft with the official anniversary map! 🎉🍰🥳 Available now on the Minecraft Marketplace for FREE! https://youtu.be/FR34B0Gfz4A"  – @OrevilleStudios  on X (formerly Twitter), May 20, 2024

 It's time to party! #minecraft #minecraftshorts #minecraft15, YouTube short

 "@agentms_ I chuckle a bit when I see people say that. Mojang did present us with the option to make the map for Java and Bedrock but pretty much everyone on the team agreed Bedrock only because the vanilla Java platform (at the time at least) would be too limiting for our vision of the map"  – @LukasPAH  on X (formerly Twitter), September 18, 2024

See also
10 Years of Minecraft, a similar map released five years prior
15 Year Party Supplies, an add-on released the day after and sharing many assets
Angry Birds, another map developed by Oreville Studios
The Incredibles, another map developed by Oreville Studios
Realms Celebration
Navigation



This was a featured article from March 24, 2025 – March 30, 2025. 
See Minecraft Wiki:Featured articles for more information.