Official Minecraft Trailer





Type

Machinima trailer

Directed by

Dennis Vareide

Music by

Olive Musique

Date

December 6, 2011

Length

1:00

{
    "title": "Official Minecraft Trailer",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Machinima trailer",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Dennis Vareide article, displayed as Dennis Vareide)",
            "label": "Directed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "Olive Musique",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 6, 2011",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:00",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

The Official Minecraft Trailer is a trailer, created by the YouTuber Vareide to promote the release of Java Edition.

Contents

1 Background and creation
2 Summary

2.1 Characters

3 Quotes

3.1 External
3.2 Transcript

4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Renders
6.2 Screenshots

7 References
8 Navigation

Background and creation
Prior to creating the official trailer, Vareide had become known in the community for making fan made promotions with a similar style. One of these trailers was used on an early version of the website for LEGO Minecraft. The song used in the trailer, Only Human, is a royalty free track composed by Serge Essiambre, also known as Olive Musique.

Summary
The trailer begins on a shot of a taiga, as the sun rises and the narrator says "let's go to a place, where everything is made of blocks." Steve appears on a beach, and then wanders through plains into another taiga, before climbing a mountain and appearing in a cave. In a cold region, Steve begins placing planks, slowly building a house with a cobblestone ceiling and glass windows, planting a farm as it rains.
Now appearing in a desert, Steve stands high on a dune, as the narrator promises "the most significant sandbox you'll ever set foot in." Steve then appears on a castle made of smooth stone slabs and netherrack, before using a piston to push cobblestone, and riding a minecart. In a forest, Steve and a friend are collecting and placing resources respectively. Indoors, Steve crafts an iron chestplate, and rushes out into the night with a full set to fight a zombie. In the same biome, Steve finds a cave, and spots a creeper inside. Steve then appears in a forest in daytime, and runs off, concluding the trailer.

Characters
Creeper
Official Narrator
Steve
Steve's Friend
Zombie
Quotes
External
“Thank you to Vareide for making this awesome Minecraft trailer!„ — Video description
Transcript

A new day begins.
Official Narrator: "Let's go to a place, where everything is made of blocks. Where the only limit..."
Steve appears on a beach.
Official Narrator: "...is your imagination."
Steve walks to a taiga from a plains biome.
Official Narrator: "Let's go, wherever you want to go."
Steve climbs up a large hill.
Official Narrator: "Climb the tallest mountains."
Steve appears in a cave, barely illuminated by a torch.
Official Narrator: "Venture down to the darkest caves."
Steve places a plank block.
Official Narrator: "Build anything you want."
Steve places another block in front of the camera, transitioning to a house.
Official Narrator: "Day or night."
Steve tills farmland during the rain.
Official Narrator: "Rain or shine."
Steve stands on a dune.
Official Narrator: "Cause this is the most significant sandbox you'll ever set foot in."
Steve stands on a castle balcony.
Official Narrator: "Build a majestic castle."
Steve powers a piston with a lever.
Official Narrator: "Invent a new machine..."
A minecart rides down a roller coaster.
Official Narrator: "...or take a ride on a roller coaster."
Steve chops down an oak while a friend places dandelions.
Official Narrator: "Play with friends. Build your own little community."
Iron ingots are placed in a crafting table, crafting a chestplate.
Official Narrator: "Protect yourself with the strongest armor that you can craft..."
Steve runs out of the crafting room to a taiga, leaping at a zombie.
Official Narrator: "...and fight off the dangers of the night."
Steve approaches a cave.
Official Narrator: "No one can tell you what you can or cannot do."
Steve sprints through a forest.
Official Narrator: "With no rules to follow, this adventure... it's up to you."

History
January 28th, 2022
The trailer is shown in an episode of Meet a Minecrafter alongside an interview with Dennis Vareide.September 28, 2024
A clip from the trailer is shown in a montage at Minecraft Live.November 9, 2025
The trailer is shown in an episode of How We Make Minecraft to demonstrate the game's history.
Trivia
As of 2026, this is the most popular video on the Minecraft YouTube channel.
Gallery
Renders



			A recreation of Steve's friend featured in the trailer


Screenshots



			The first shot of the trailer



			The sun rising



			Daytime above a taiga



			Steve as they appear in the trailer



			Steve venturing to a taiga



			Steve climbing a mountain



			Steve in a cave



			Steve placing wooden planks



			Steve having placed a planks block



			Steve in a house



			Steve farming



			Steve in a desert



			A visual pun on the term "sandbox.



			Steve on a castle



			Steve tinkering



			Steve on a railway



			Steve with a friend



			The friend placing flowers



			Steve crafting an iron chestplate



			Steve armored



			Steve running over to a zombie



			Steve encountering a cave



			Steve frolicking through a forest



			The game's then-logo appearing



			The final shot of the trailer


References

 "First Minecraft Trailer Mystery – Solved!! (ft Dennis Vareide)"  – Minecraft on YouTube, January 28, 2022

 "Minecraft Fan-Made Trailer"  – This channel is not active on YouTube, September 19, 2010

 "Minecraft Fanmade Teaser"  – This channel is not active on YouTube, October 5, 2010

 "Minecraft Fanmade Trailer v2"  – This channel is not active on YouTube, November 18, 2010

 "This Is Minecraft"  – This channel is not active on YouTube, December 3, 2010

 "LEGO.com Minecraft Home"   (Archive)  – LEGO.com.

 "Only Human"     by Olive Musique  – PremiumBeat.

 "Minecraft - YouTube"     by Mojang  – YouTube.

Navigation