This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This article is missing information about: Map 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Official Minecon trailer





Type

Promotional machinima

Music by

Ephixa

Productioncompanies

Hat Films

Date

November 13, 2011

Length

3:46

{
    "title": "Official Minecon trailer",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Promotional machinima",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Ephixa article, displayed as Ephixa)",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Hat Films article, displayed as Hat Films)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 13, 2011",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "3:46",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

The official Minecon trailer is the official trailer for MINECON 2011.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 External links
7 Navigation

Summary
Living in a house built on top a lake, Steve receives an invitation from Mojang Studios to attend Minecon. Accepting it, they travel to an airplane, where they are escorted by djh3max and Trottimus. Passing by several YouTubers of the day and a cow, Steve takes a seat and looks out a window as the plane takes off. Arriving at Mandalay Bay, Steve marches down a red carpet, while Alsmiffy and Honeydew work on a contraption outside.
Meeting up with Xephos, Steve is brought into the building, while Alsmiffy shows reluctance to finish the machine, apparently designed to infiltrate the convention. Inside, Steve walks down a long path, past many figures and players. However, Honeydew ends up being shot inside by an explosion, breaking a wool wall. Xephos protects Steve from several people using a golden sword, before the two reach the top of a panel, exchanging head nods with Notch and Jeb. Looking over attendance, Steve realizes a creeper has snuck in, too late to stop it from exploding.

Characters

Alsmiffy
Cow
Creeper
djh3max
ez
Herobrine
Honeydew
jeb_
Logdotzip
Notch
Steve
Trottimus
Xephos
Quotes
“This is the Official Minecon Trailer made by HAT Films. The Yogscast and Ephixa are also involved  as well as over 300 of viewers out there. Watch to see if you're in there and enjoy!„ — Video description
Videos





Trivia
Alongside the release of the behind the scenes video was a contest, wherein ten random subscribers of Hat Films were given codes to access Minecraft.
The contest was set up to ensure only "true Minecrafters" would get the game and not spambots "who have no friends."
To the right of the Mandalay Bay is a recreation of the Luxor Las Vegas, an ancient Egyptian themed hotel located near the resort in real life, albeit not precisely where it is in the video. According to the behind the scenes video, it was made simply out of a desire to build "a massive pyramid."
Behind the Mandalay Bay area is a "really pathetic" recreation of the Eiffel Tower, made out of blocks of gold.
Despite the front of the building having doors in the video, the in-map model doesn't lead to the interior set. Instead, merely a wall of black wool.
Gallery






External links
Download of the world used in the trailer
Navigation