This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


 For the in-game server list for multiplayer, see Server list.

Official Minecraft Server List

Owner

Mojang Studios, GamerSafer

Founded

November 7, 2023 (November 7, 2023)

Current status

Active

Open-source

No

Registration

None

Website

findmcserver.com

{
    "title": "Official Minecraft Server List",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios), [https://gamersafer.com/ GamerSafer]",
            "label": "Owner"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 7, 2023<span class=\"noprint\">; 2 years ago</span><span style=\"display:none\"> (<span class=\"bday dtstart published updated\">November 7, 2023</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "Active",
            "label": "Current status"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Open-source"
        },
        {
            "field": "None",
            "label": "Registration"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://findmcserver.com findmcserver.com]",
            "label": "Website"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "findmcservers logo.png"
    ]
}

The Official Minecraft Server List is a website launched by Mojang Studios and GamerSafer, that allows players to find servers to play in for Java and Bedrock editions. It was launched in November 2023, but was in development for about 1 year.

Contents

1 Overview
2 Badges
3 Gallery
4 References
5 Navigation

Overview
The website features a list of servers for the player to choose from, where each server contains its own categories based on game modes, features, server type, and other factors, while displaying the available badges on the server box.
According to Minecraft.net's article, all listed servers must comply with the Minecraft Usage Guidelines (MUG), and they must provide official contact information and state the purpose of the server.
Any server owner with a significant amount of players may be able to apply to the website, through the Add Your Server page and following the listed Basic Eligibility Requirements.

Badges
All servers listed on the Official Minecraft Server List have a badge, which according to the Badges page are awarded for servers who showcase their work and commitment to safe and enjoyable experiences.

Name
Description
Requirements

 Builder's Benchmark

Servers with the Builder's Benchmark Badge have been recently reviewed by the Mojang Enforcement team and are found to comply with the Minecraft Usage Guidelines for running the server.

Required in order to be publicly listed on the site
Complete a self-review of the current Minecraft Usage Guidelines ('MUG')
If the MUG is updated, the server will make sure they remain in compliance
Mojang will review the server and contact them at the provided email address
Mojang will note the server’s most recent review date and conclusion of that review
Servers that are reported for violating guidelines will be reviewed and may lose the Badge and visibility on the site while the server review is being completed

 Community Basics

Safety starts with servers having a great foundation, and that means having some essential pieces in place for the community to reference. Servers will be required to achieve this Badge in order to be listed on this site, but the steps to achieve it are fairly simple and follow standard processes most servers will already have in place.

Required in order to be publicly listed on the site
A public email address for people to contact the server
Complete the Community Essentials Workbook
Link to your Rules page on your website or write your rules in our "Server Rules" editor
The GamerSafer team will review servers to make sure they are active and accessible

 Beacon of Safety

This Badge is rewarded to highly committed servers that leverage in-game tools to escalate online harms (like targeted harassment and hate speech) for human review to promote safer and more welcoming interactions. These servers use the latest Minecraft versions and safety tech, such a player abuse reporting, to support their efforts.

This Badge is not required in order to be publicly listed on the site
Enable player abuse reporting to support chat moderation efforts
Run version 1.19.1 or later as the primary version for players to join
Schedule a server assessment with the GamerSafer team to discuss chat filtering, moderation, and other player safety measures

 GamerSafer

GamerSafer has a mission to provide tools that can support games to create safer, more secure experiences that respect a player's privacy. They are excited to recognize servers joining this mission!

This Badge is not required in order to be publicly listed on the site
Sign-up for GSAuth Iron, Gold, or Diamond tier services, which you can activate here
Activate GSAuth for in-game Staff 2FA to protect your staff accounts from hackers and impersonators
Setup a one-time, 15 minute GSAuth training with your team

 Alpha Supporters

This is an exclusive Badge available only to servers that have joined FindMCServer during the pre-production and testing periods. They helped them immensely with testing new features as they were developed and making this website release possible.

This Badge is not required in order to be publicly listed on the site
Provide feedback, bug reports, and features requests about the site
Contribute to the GamerSafer Discord Community and be an ambassador for player safety
Receive and accept the invitation to join the Alpha Supporters private group

Gallery



			Screenshot of the home page



			Ditto, but in higher resolution


References

 "The Official Minecraft Server List is Live"     – Minecraft.net, November 7, 2023.


"FindMCServer.com: A Game-Changer for Minecraft Servers and Fans"     – GamerSafer, November 7, 2023.

 This can be checked by doing WHOIS query on "findmcserver.com" domain; it was registered on November 8, 2022. (archive)

Navigation