Main article: Buffet



This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

The Buffet world type used to have two extra generator types which were removed in Java Edition 1.18 due to bugs and lack of support. They were:

Caves: Uses generation settings that are similar to those of Nether in Overworld. The world generates with a bedrock floor at the Y=0 lower height limit and a bedrock ceiling at Y=127, and the world is generated in between these two like a giant cave complex, much like the Nether. Like other Buffet world types, this world type makes Overworld only have one selected biome.
Floating Islands: Uses generation settings that are similar to those of End outer islands in Overworld. There is no bedrock ceiling or floor to the world, and the entire Overworld is generated in the shape of a series of floating islands, much like the End outer islands. Like other Buffet world types, this world type makes Overworld only have one selected biome.
Contents

1 Trivia
2 Gallery
3 See also
4 Navigation

Trivia
If used with Floating Islands world type, biomes that would normally contain underground generated structures, such as mineshafts, strongholds or fossils, sometimes have the structures spawn floating freely away from the islands.
Generating an Overworld biome with Floating Islands world type can simulate what the Sky Dimension or Indev map type floating might have looked like.
Ocean biomes created using Floating Islands generation spawn with lots of floating water in the shape of caves.
Deep ocean biomes created using Floating Islands generation can spawn the player into empty space and immediately drop them into the void, making such worlds unplayable in Survival.
Depending on the biome, the bedrock ceiling of the Caves world type may have holes in it, due to the generation of lakes or other structures. Players who manage to make their way above the bedrock ceiling can find generated structures such as villages and ruined portals.
The Caves world type is nearly uninhabitable, because in addition to the perpetual darkness causing hostile mobs to spawn continuously in normal Overworld biomes, trees never spawn regardless of biome, and therefore wood is obtainable only from structures that generate with it.
If used with Floating Islands world generation, diamond and redstone ores are extremely hard to spawn as few islands reach down as far as Y=15[verify], the topmost level at which these ores spawn.
Gallery



			The old customization screen with the generator type option.



			A plains floating island buffet world.



			A desert biome that was set to generate as floating islands, resulting in multiple "End-like" islands that are instead composed of blocks usually found in desert biomes.



			A frozen river biome generated with Floating Islands world type fails to generate any rivers.



			A Buffet world, set to the ocean biome generated with Caves world type.



			A nether biome buffet world generated using End terrain.



			A warm ocean biome buffet world generated using End terrain.



			A sparse jungle biome buffet world generated using End terrain.



			Another sparse jungle biome buffet world generated using End terrain.



			A world using the Caves world type, the checkerboard biome source and size 0.



			A floating islands buffet world made to generate with multiple biomes.



			The floating islands world type.



			The caves world type.



			Floating island taiga world.


See also
Custom
Navigation