Not to be confused with Bad Omen, Ominous Trial, or Raid.

 For other uses, see Ominous.

The ominous event system explained.
An ominous event is an occurrence triggered by the Bad Omen status effect.

Contents

1 Behavior
2 Variants

2.1 Raid
2.2 Ominous Trial

3 Achievements
4 Advancements
5 History

5.1 Java Edition
5.2 Bedrock Edition

6 Issues
7 Navigation

Behavior
When a player with the Bad Omen effect enters a village or approaches a trial spawner, the Bad Omen effect transforms into another Omen, which subsequently triggers an ominous event.

Variants
Raid
Illagers attacking a village in a raid.
Main articles: Raid and Raid Omen
When a player walks into a village while having Bad Omen, the effect is immediately replaced with Raid Omen, with an effect duration of 30 seconds.
A raid event is triggered when the Raid Omen effect naturally expires. During a raid, the raiders (i.e. illagers, witches, and ravagers) seek out villagers, iron golems, and players to attack.
If a player with Raid Omen loses the effect via commands or a milk bucket, the Raid Omen does not trigger a raid. This means the player has 30 seconds to consume a remedy when they enter a village in order to prevent a raid from occurring.

Ominous Trial
Trial chambers during an ominous trial
Main articles: Ominous Trial and Trial Omen
When a player with Bad Omen moves within 15 blocks of a trial spawner, the Bad Omen is immediately replaced with Trial Omen, which immediately triggers an ominous trial event. The Trial Omen lasts for 15 minutes per level of Bad Omen that the player had.
An ominous trial event is triggered without delay, and varies in size and duration depending on how many trial spawners a player activates. When a player with Trial Omen enters within 15 blocks of a trial spawner, the spawner immediately activates and becomes ominous (i.e. it becomes an Ominous Trial Spawner). The player can activate multiple spawners this way, making the ominous trial last for longer.
A player can also prevent the ominous trial from being expanded to more trial spawners by consuming a remedy (i.e. milk or commands) and removing the Trial Omen effect. This does not pause or slow down any existing ominous trial spawners. The ominous trial event continues until all of the ominous trial spawners are defeated and become inactive.

Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherWe're being attacked!Trigger a Pillager Raid.Walk in a village with the Raid Omen effect applied in 30 seconds.20BronzeI've got a bad feeling about thisKill a Pillager Captain.Drink an Ominous Bottle.20BronzeRevaultingUnlock an Ominous Vault with an Ominous Trial Key—20Silver
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)How Did We Get Here?Have every effect applied at the same time
Have all of these 34 status effects applied to the player at the same time:

Absorption
Bad Omen
Blindness
Breath of the Nautilus
Conduit Power
Darkness
Dolphin's Grace
Fire Resistance
Glowing
Haste
Hero of the Village
Hunger
Infested
Invisibility
Jump Boost
Levitation
Mining Fatigue
Nausea
Night Vision
Oozing
Poison
Raid Omen
Regeneration
Resistance
Slow Falling
Slowness
Speed
Strength
Trial Omen
Water Breathing
Weakness
Weaving
Wind Charged
Wither

The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.

See also: Tutorial:Advancement guide/How Did We Get Here?

This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.Hero of the VillageSuccessfully defend a village from a raidKill at least one raid mob during a raid and wait until it ends in victory.
This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.RevaultingUnlock an Ominous Vault with an Ominous Trial Key—
History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.20.5ExperimentUpdate 1.2124w13a
Added ominous events.1.2124w18a
Ominous events are now available without using the "Update 1.21" experimental data pack.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.21.0ExperimentUpdate 1.21Preview 1.21.0.20
Added ominous events.1.21.0Preview 1.21.0.22
Ominous events are now available without using the "Update 1.21" experimental toggle.
Issues
Issues relating to "Ominous Event" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Navigation