Not to be confused with Ore (feature).

Ore vein

Biomes

Any

Consists of

Deepslate Iron Ore
Block of Raw Iron
Tuff
or
Copper Ore
Block of Raw Copper
Granite

{
    "title": "Ore vein",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Any",
            "label": "(link to Biome article, displayed as Biomes)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Consists of"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Ore veins.jpg"
    ]
}

An ore vein is a rare underground terrain feature that provides massive amounts of ore. It has a chance to be either an iron or copper based vein. Depending on the ore it is, it will rarely spawn a few raw blocks of that ore.



 There is a related tutorial page for this topic! 
See Tutorial:Mining/Ore veins.

Contents

1 Structure
2 Generation
3 History

3.1 Development
3.2 Java Edition
3.3 Bedrock Edition

4 Issues
5 Gallery
6 See also
7 Navigation

Structure
A fully exposed copper ore vein
Ore veins occur as large branching networks of a filler rock, paired with high concentrations of an associated ore type. Copper veins generate between Y=0 and Y=50 and contain copper ore and raw copper, with granite as the filler material. Iron veins generate below Y=-8 and can reach as deep as Y=-60, and contain iron ore and raw iron, with tuff as the filler material.
Ore veins generate similarly to spaghetti caves and share their shape and scale. They snake and branch, forming large networks and eventually reaching dead ends. Where they intersect caves, the player can easily spot them in the floors, walls, and ceilings. The size of a single vein is virtually unlimited; in some cases, more than 2,000 of a particular ore can be found in a single vein.
Ore veins are a part of cave generation and are not decorators. This means they are overridden by caves, mineshafts or other underground structures. This also means they can generate in The Void biome.
The tuff or granite around an ore vein can be replaced by gravel, but the main mineral blocks (iron ore and copper ore) remain. So there can be ore blocks completely surrounded by gravel.

An interactive widget is being loaded. If this does not work for you, please reload the page or check if JavaScript is working or enabled.
Generation



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Ore veins generate the same way as noise caves, in particular spaghetti caves. They are thickest between Y=20 and Y=30 for copper veins and between Y=-40 and Y=-28 for iron veins, and taper off towards the limits of their generation at Y=0 to Y=50 and Y=-60 to Y=-8 respectively. 70% of the blocks within the vein are not changed. Of the remaining 30% between 10% and 30% is the ore material within the vein, with the rest being filler material. 98% of the non-filler blocks generate as normal ore blocks, while 2% are generated as raw ore blocks (block of raw copper and block of raw iron, respectively).Ore distribution graph for 1.18While the composition of veins is hardcoded, datapacks may change the shape and size of veins by changing the vein_toggle, vein_ridged and vein_gap density functions supplied to the noise router.

History
Development
March 12, 2021
Agnes Larsson talks about "New really big ore veins we are going to add".
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1721w16a
Added ore veins, which must be enabled using the Caves & Cliffs Prototype Data Pack.April 21, 2021
Henrik Kniberg showcases ore vein generation.April 22, 2021
Kniberg mentions tweaks to ore vein generation: the veins are now smaller and more clumped.April 22, 2021
Kniberg mentions tweaking generation to make the gaps between clumps smaller.21w17a
Ore veins are now slightly rarer, slightly smaller, more clumpy, and can rarely contain raw metal blocks.21w18a
Ore veins were once again made slightly rarer and slightly smaller on average. Their sizes now vary significantly, meaning players can still find huge ore veins like in previous snapshots as well as smaller ones.

Raw metal blocks now generate more frequently within ore veins.1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
Ore veins can now be found in the base game, and no longer have to be enabled with a data pack.experimental snapshot 2
Ore veins are now slightly larger and spawn more frequently.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.17.30ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.17.30.23
Added ore veins behind the Caves and Cliffs experimental gameplay toggle.1.17.40ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.17.40.20
Ore veins are now slightly larger and spawn more frequently.1.18.0beta 1.18.0.20
Ore veins can now be found by default, and no longer have to be enabled with experimental gameplay toggle.
Issues
Issues relating to "Ore vein" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery



			Copper vein with a raw copper block.



			A copper vein exposed on the seabed.



			Exposed copper vein.



			Exposed iron vein.



			Copper ore vein found exposed of surface.



			An iron vein.



			A copper vein.


See also
Tutorial:Mining
Navigation