This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

The Inbox
The Inbox is an in-game message center accessible from the main menu when signed in. Players receive update announcements, Marketplace and Realms advertisements, feedback polls, Realms invites, and other news here.

Contents

1 Usage
2 List of messages

2.1 News
2.2 Realms
2.3 Invites
2.4 Marketplace Pass
2.5 Feedback

3 History
4 Gallery
5 Notes
6 Navigation

Usage
The Inbox has a bell button on the bottom-left on the main menu, only visible when signed in. It can show a red notification dot and animation when there are unread messages.
Messages are sorted into five tabs: News, Invites, Realms, Marketplace Pass, and Feedback. News messages include updates, events, and some announcements, usually also shown as pop-ups on the main menu and device notifications. Realms and Marketplace Pass messages are often related to new content in the Marketplace Pass, when content becomes unavailable, and some announcements. The feedback tab shows external links to the feedback site and sometimes, a poll where the player can send in-game feedback to Mojang Studios.

Example of a message details screen
These messages are sent by Minecraft, and may be delayed for certain regions. Messages are synced to the player's Xbox account and saved forever, although individual messages can be deleted. Each message can be opened to show the full content and images, and some also contain external links or buttons to Marketplace packs.
Messages are stored in the cache files. The Inbox fetches new messages when the player is in the menus with an internet connection; the player may miss messages if they aren't online for a while.

The Inbox settings
The inbox has a few settings accessible with a button on the top-right.

Option

Description

Default

Only show invites from friends

Under the "Invites" tab, only Realms invites from friends are shown (not from removed friends).

Enable message batch alerts

Enables a red dot when getting a message.

Enable invite badge alerts

Enables a red dot when getting an invite.

Mark all messages as read

The "unread" red dot of all messages disappears, and all messages are now marked as read.

Delete all read messages

Deletes all the messages marked as read. A warning message pops up before deleting.

List of messages



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: If your inbox has messages not listed here, please add them.

News
The Getting Started message, linking to How to Play Minecraft: Tips for Beginners
Every new player gets the following message in the Inbox after signing in:

Getting Started
“Welcome to Minecraft, we're glad you're here! Since there's so much to do, it's easy to feel a little lost. Here are some basics for getting started.
There are two main ways to play Minecraft: Survival mode, and Creative mode. In Survival mode, you need to, well, survive. Gather resources by hand, keep yourself fed and sheltered, and ideally, get a bed made so you can sleep.

If you start your Minecraft journey in Survival mode, you may want to take the following to-do list and adapt it as your own:
-Punch trees to get logs. This is an important (and iconic) step.
-Open up your inventory. You'll see a 2x2 crafting interface in your inventory. (Note: this is only true for Minecraft on PC. If you're on a console, you have a fancy crafting button on your controller, and if you're on mobile, a fancy crafting icon on the screen!)
-Turn the logs into wooden planks. Grab the logs and put them in one of the 2x2 slots, turning them into planks.
-Place one of the wooden planks in each of the four slots in your crafting interface to make a crafting table.
-Place your crafting table down.
-Make your first set of wooden tools. To make them you'll need more wooden planks, some sticks, and the crafting table. You can create a pickaxe with two stickes placed in the bottom-middle and true-middle slots, and three wooden planks across the top three slots.

After you've made a wooden pickaxe, you can mine blocks like stone and coal. From there, you can make stone tools, which are even more durable than the wooden ones! You can also use stone to build your first shelter, and to make a furnace for smelting raw ores like iron and gold. With a set of stone tools, a furnace, and a shelter, you'll be well on your way to surviving like a pro.

If you start your Minecraft journey in Creative mode, you can throw out that list of objectives I just gave you. In Creative mode, you don't need to eat, you don't need to shelter from mobs, and you don't need to gather resources. Oh, yeah, you can also fly. Absolute power feels pretty good, doesn't it?

By opening your inventory, you'll see you have a limitless supply of every block in the game. Go nuts. Build castles, terraform a volcano, make a to-scale replica of the Eiffel Tower, whatever you want.

Just a note: achievements are part of the game too, but only in pure Survival mode worlds. You can change a world from Survival mode to Creative mode and vice versa at any time, but the world will no longer be eligible for achievements.

And that's it! With these basics under your belt, I dub thee "ready to play". Go on and build your own masterpiece map, with my blocky blessing!„

When a player report was deemed valid, the player receives the following message:

Report Status Notification
“Hello, <player>
The Minecraft team has reviewed your reported concern and determined that it was a violation of our terms. Appropriate action has been taken.

Thank you for reporting your concern and helping to keep Minecraft a safe and welcoming community for all!„

Date

Thumbnail
Title
Body
Link

14-6-2024

Dig into Tricky Trials

Thanks for updating your game to the Tricky Trials Update. It's time to jump in!
Picture your first trial chamber: a dark and daring dungeon with sprawling halls, stuffed with traps and treasure. You creep through a copper corridor as the cries of unfamiliar foes echo around you. There's great fortune to be made here, and great misfortune to avoid!
Whether you venture forward solo or join up with friends, the trial chambers promise a tricky challenge and marvelous rewards. What will you find in the vault?
That's not all this update has in store! With your game now updated, you can also:

Use the crafter for automated crafting - Just add stacks of ingredients and supply a redstone pulse
Face off against the bogged, a new skeleton found in trial chambers and swamps
The wind charge will blast foes with gusts of wind and send them flying
New pottery sherds to collect, armor trims to covet, and breeze-themed banner designs
Deck your walls with 20 new paintings
See you in the Overworld!

5-8-2024

It's Tetris in Minecraft!

Dig into the Tetris®︎ and experience the blocky blending of strategic 2D tetris with 3D dungeon crawling! You'll battle Tetrimonsters in the Matrix dungeon as you unearth its secrets, get an iconic new wardrobe, and explore four gameplay modes in single or multiplayer. Download now and flex your Tetris muscles!

See Details

28-8-2024

Check out the SpongeBob add-on

There are some characters who fit the Minecraft motif better than others, and I personally think few fit it better than SpongeBob SquarePants himself. I mean... our iconic shaping is right there in his name. SquarePants? He's practically a sponge block already! And with his friends alive in any of your worlds. Oops. Did I say "friends"? Don't let Squidward hear me...
In your adventures, you'll also come across some fishy foes, including Plankton, DoodleBob, and even the Flying Dutchman! But that's not all...
You'll also get to unlock iconinc buildings from Bikini Bottom like SpongeBob's pinepple and the Krusty Krab. And if living in a giant pineapple doesn't sound like your idea of fun (who hurt you?), you can still craft new custom blocks and furniture to bring a little bit of Bikini Bottom style into your own builds. Oh, and pack your bookbag - we're going to boating school! (Not really. Drivers ed is brutal enough in the real world. But you will get your very onw boatmobile!)
You can also swim on down to the Dressing Room to pick up your free SpongeBob Imaginaaaation Rainbow Hat! You know SpongeBob would approve! (And Squidward, although it might take him a while to admit it.)
So! Are ya ready, kids?

GET IT NOW

28-9-2024

Crash into the Transformers DLC

Come on ... you can't tell me you don't think transforming machines that can be everything from cars, tanks, and world-saving bodyguards are cool. Of course, they're cool - and they've swerved into Minecraft!
The Autobots need your help to defend the Earth against the Decepticons in this new DLC. You'll get to play as fan-favorites, like Optimus Prime and Bumblebee while you take on familiar foes like Megatron and Star Scream. You also get to upgrade your combat gameplay with a variety of blocky blasters, and you can even pull in your friends to help in multiplayer mode. You can also drive by the Dressing Room and grab your free Transformers Hoodie. (No, it doesn't let you turn into a swanky yellow car. We'll work on that, though.)
So, Autobot, are you ready to roll out?

Get it now

5-10-2024

Let's review Minecraft Live

Did you get to see Minecraft Live? I hope you did, but if you didn't, don't fret - we're gonna talk about it here, and there's a wrap-up video for you to watch too!
Are you excited about the upcoming drop? I know I am! Bundles of Bravery is bringing two long-anticipated features to the game: bundles, which can help organize your inventory, and Hardcore mode in Bedrock Edition!
We also got a sneak peek of drop features coming to snapshot and preview/beta soon, one of which is my newest favorite biome: the pale garden. This eerie biome, filled with new pale oak wood and hanging pale moss, is also home to a new startling mob ... will you uncover its secrets?
Minecraft Live will follow a new path from now on, with the mob vote staying retired, and the event is happening twice a year to talk about the upcoming stuff. It helps us keep you better in the loop, and hey. Who doesn't want a little more Minecraft Live in the year?
If you want to read the article on minecraft.net (or watch the wrap-up video), check out the link below!

Learn More

23-10-2024

Dig into Bundles of Bravery

Get ready to muster your courage and remaster your inventory, because bundles and Hardcore mode are finally here!
Tame your inventory with bundles, a space-saving new item that lets you combine stacks of different items, gift surprises to friends, and carry more on your adventures than ever before. If you'd rather embrace the chaos, then set yourself a new challenge in Hardcore mode - where death is permanent, and the game is locked to the highest difficulty setting.
However you like to play, the Bundles of Bravery drop is out today!

Learn More

17-11-2024

Make way for the Moana 2 DLC

Journey the seas of Oceania and explore islands in the Moana 2 DLC! Explore cinematic spots like the mysterious Wayfinder Cavern and Lalotai or fight familiar foes like the Kakamora and Tamatoa from Disney's Moana.
You can also relax and enjoy island life with a festival and canoe race! Top off your island adventure with the Flower Crown, available for free in the Dressing Room for a limited time!

Available Now

28-11-2024

The Block Friday Sale is back

Block Friday returns for its seventh year in a row! Head to the Marketplace for great digital deals of up to 75% off.
The sale runs every day from 10 am PST on November 26 to 10 am PST on December 3, so be sure to "block" off your calendars!

Go to Marketplace

11-12-2024

Rumors of a special shirt

I heart a rumor that the creaking mob can be... created?? Rumor has it that by crafting a creaking heart block and placing it between two logs, adventureres will be rewarded with a special Creaking Heart Shirt. I don't want to wear clothes from that creepy mob, but maybe you do.  And of course, with the reward comes the risk... once you've made the creaking, you might want to run.

20-12-2024

New Year's Sale at Marketplace

Start your new year with new ways to play! From 10 am PT on December 19 to 10 amp PT on January 7, 2025, you can get great digital deals of up to 75% off and the Soundscapes+ add-on for free!
Want to introduce your blocky worlds to a new you this new year? Then hit the Dressing Room and fill your closet with select Character Creator items for 33% off. Enjoy the New Year's Sale today!

Go to Marketplace

29-12-2024

Lava Chicken Add-on

This chicken got cooked - will you? Feast on some lava chicken,  like Steve's recipe in A Minecraft Movie, to turn up the heat and leave a... spicy trail for your foes. Can you win the battle before the heat overwhelms you? Get the free add-on at Minecraft Marketplace and test your cooking skills. Stay tuned for more exciting A Minecraft Movie content... Now dig in!

Get It Now

22-1-2025

Hello Kitty and Friends DLC

Step into the world of Hello Kitty in this charming DLC, where farming meets friendship! Create your own cozy farm allongside Hello Kitty, Cinnamoroll, Kuromi, and many more.
You can also upgrade your home with over 180 new furniture options for lots of added charm and enjoy seasonal events like spring egg hunts and fall pumpkin carving. Enjoy the sweetest simulation today!

Available now

29-1-2025

Celebrate Lunar New Year

Start of the Year of the snake with cool content and freebies in Minecraft Marketplace!
Explore a curated collection of Lunar New Year packs from January 28 10am PT to February 4 10am PT and grab your free copy of the map Wukong: Uproar in the Heaven.
You can also claim your free Hello Kitty®︎ Lantern Banner in the Dressing Room, perfect to wear when playing the Hello Kitty and Friends DLC (sold separately). Happy Lunar New Year!

Go to Marketplace

9-2-2025

Zoom into the Sonic add-on

Ready to roll around at the speed of sound? Do you have places to go, and you gotta go fast?
Do I have an add-on for you... The Sonic Add-On! Play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, and Shadow in any of your worlds. Smash blocks with a spin-dash, collect rings, take down enemies, and go so fast you run on water. Become the blue blur today!

Available now

11-2-2025

Minecraft 1.21.60 Update

Great news: Minecraft R21u6 is finally here!
We've added new features to the experimental toggle for you to try in Java snapshot and Bedrock beta/preview, including falling leaf particles, changes to the lodestone, and best of all, warm and cold pig variants! Who doesn't want a cute fluffy pig?!
There's also been over 200 bug fixes and tweaks to improve your gameplay experience. You can see the full list of changes at aka.ms/MinecraftUpdate
Please be sure to report any new bugs you find at bugs.mojang.com and leave us your feedback at feedback.minecraft.net!

21-2-2025

Dungeons & Dragons returns

Begin a new adventure with familiar heroes in Dungeons & Dragons: A New Quest! Join Katra and Vear once more as they journey onwards in the Forgotten Realms.
Dive deeper into iconic locations like Icewind Dale, embark on new quests, cast spells to fight your foes, and make new friends along the way. Choose your class, upgrade your stats, and dive back into the magical world of Faerûn!

Available now

27-2-2025

A Minecraft Movie Add-on

When the Overworld and Nether clash, you’d better be equipped! Wield powerful weapons and fight vicious piglins from A Minecraft Movie in this free add-on. Equip the potato launcher, buck-chuckets, and more, then face the Piglin General, the Great Hog, and a host of other foes. Can you handle everything the Nether will throw at you? Gear up and find out!

Go to Marketplace

9-3-2025

Minecraft LIVE coming soon

Minecraft LIVE is returning on March 22 at 1 PM ET and bringing all the blocky new Minecraft news with it!  Tune in to learn about the upcoming game drops, get sneak peeks at new features, and get the inside scoop on everything Minecraft. We'll see you there!

15-3-2025

Minecraft LIVE: Save the date

Save the date for Minecraft LIVE! Tune in on March 22 at 1 PM ET on Twitch, YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, or minecraft.net. Be there or be square! (Though, let’s be real—you’ll be there, which makes you blocky. So technically, still square… just in 3D.)

Learn more

22-3-2025

It's time for Minecraft LIVE

Minecraft LIVE is happening today at 1 pm ET. Tune in on YouTube, Twitch, Instagram, TikTok, or minecraft.net. You can also grab A Minecraft Movie-themed skin pack for free in the Minecraft Marketplace now!

Watch LIVE

25-3-2025

New wonders of the Overworld

The Spring to Life game drop brings more reasons to explore both near and far! Warm winds have swept across biomes, bringing new mob variants, ambient sounds, and lush plants for you to discover.
Befriend fluffy pigs, marvel at glittering firefly bushes, listen out for whispers of sand, and delight in a blooming Overworld humming with new beginnings. Play the Spring to Life game drop in Minecraft now!

Learn more

2-4-2025

A Minecraft Movie Live Event

Midport Village needs your help! Join Steve and his companions in this evolving multiplayer live event where you defend the village in three mini games. Mine for resources, fight piglins, protect payloads, and upgrade your gear. Starts on March 25 at 2 pm PT (11 pm CET) and runs until April 7 at 2 pm PT (11 pm CET).  Complete all the challenges to earn the Yearn cape!

Learn more

4-4-2025

1.21.80.25 Beta Preview

Welcome to the 1.21.80.25 Beta and Preview! For a complete changelog visit: aka.ms/MinecraftBeta and please search for any bugs you may find at bugs.mojang.com. Here are the highlights on what's in the update:
Experimental: Added the Dried Ghast, Ghastling, Happy Ghast, and Harness
Experimenta; Added Vibrant Visuals - see the full changelog for more information about supported devices
Farmer villagers no longer occasionally get stuck when collecting grown crops
Shields now take durability damage from explosions
Please remember that worlds opened on Beta Preview builds cannot be reopened on previous builds. We recommend that you always make a copy of your worlds before opening them in the new update. Beta Preview players can only connect to other players on the same build version and do not have access to Realms. More information about joining and leaving the Beta Preview can be found at aka.mes/PreviewFAQ.

Read More

5-4-2025

A MINECRAFT MOVIE is out now!

A MINECRAFT MOVIE is officially out in theaters! Embark on an adventure that has it all: a ragtag group of misfits, a mysterious blocky world, angry hordes of piglins, and of course, Steve! How will our heroes fare in the Overworld? Will they ever get back home? And how will they deal with the minor ordeal of a piglin plot to conquer the Overworld?

Learn More

12-4-2025

Explore the Spring Sale

Spring into Minecraft Marketplace for this year’s Spring Sale! From April 8 at 10 am PT to April 22 at 10 am PT, you can get discounts of up to 75% off on select Marketplace content and 33% off select Character Creator items in the Dressing Room. You can also grab two free add-ons during the sale: the Uncrafting Items add-on from April 8, and the Echo Crystal add-on from April 15. Enjoy your seasonal savings today!

Go to Marketplace

5-5-2025

Explore the Star Wars Day Sale

May the 4th be with you! Celebrate Star Wars Day in Minecraft Marketplace between April 29 at 10 am PT and May 6 at 10 am PT. Get 33% off the Star Wars: Path of the Jedi DLC, the Star Wars mash-up pack, and five interstellar skin packs! You can also grab your free R2-D2 Beanie in the Dressing Room. With deals like this, we’re speeding to the Marketplace in less than 12 parsecs!

6-5-2025

Your new cape and more

Thanks for signing in. Your free Common Cape awaits! Besides this, you can now play cross-platform with your friends on a Realm, access your marketplace content across different game platforms, and track your achievements.

View Cape

7-5-2025

Minecraft 1.21.80 Update

Great news: Minecraft 1.21.80 is here!
You can now add some variety to your flat worlds by selecting one of eight flat world presets on the Create New World screen, including Snowy Kingdom, Tunneler's Dream, and Bottomless Pit.
There's also been over 200 bug fixes and tweaks to improve your gameplay experience. You can see the full list of changes at aka.ms/MinecraftUpdate
Please be sure to report any new bugs you find at bugs.mojang.com and leave us your feedback at feedback.minecraft.net

Learn More

17-6-2025

Chase the Skies

Experience the joy of soaring above the Overworld with our Chase the Skies drop! Fly with your happy ghast, leash a caravan of camels together, find wandering friends with the Player Locator bar, and more. Players on Bedrock Edition can also soak in breathtaking views with Minecraft's biggest official visual refresh – Vibrant Visuals. Play today!
Please note: some Marketplace content won't work with Vibrant Visuals, initially. They'll need some time to integrate— click the button to learn more!

Learn more

21-6-2025

Take on ghastastic challenges

Are you ready for a challenge? Strap in for two community challenges starting June 20!
Can you together spawn 50 million happy ghasts in Creative mode and feed snowballs to one million ghastlings in Survival? Once the community has completed these ghast-ly challenges, you all get rewarded! Bedrock players receive two epic Character Creator items and Java players get two soaring skins. Good luck!

Learn more

1-7-2025

1.21.100.23 Beta Preview

Welcome to the 1.21.100.23 Beta and Preview! For a complete changelog visit: aka.ms/MinecraftBeta and please search for any bugs you may find at bugs.mojang.com. Here are the highlights on what's in the update:
Experimental: Added the Copper Golem and Copper Chests
Experimental: Added Copper tools and armor
Fixed a bug that caused Happy Ghast to occasionally suffocate when faced against a wall
Boats once again retain momentum when moving off ledges
Please remember that worlds opened on Beta Preview builds cannot be reopened on previous builds. We recommend that you always make a copy of your worlds before opening them in the new update. Beta Preview players can only connect to other players on the same build version and do not have access to Realms. More information about joining and leaving the Beta Preview can be found at aka.mes/PreviewFAQ.

Read More

1-7-2025

Splash into the Summer Sale

Start your summer with great deals in Minecraft Marketplace!

Check in every day from July 1 to July 22 to get up to 75% off on select DLCs like worlds, add-ons, and skins. You can also dig into the world of the Hermits with your free copy of the Hermitcraft: Season 8 map.

Here’s to summer fun!

Go to Marketplace

18-7-2025

Canine art and catchy tunes

Craft a painting of the best canine companion a Steve could ask for and dance until the phantoms come out to the Lava Chicken music disc – out now in Java and Bedrock Edition! Get them both by simply updating Minecraft!

5-8-2025

1.21.100 is here

Minecraft has officially updated to version 1.21.100! Check out the full changelog here, and don’t miss the new features available for testing: copper golems, copper chests, a full set of copper tools and armor, and even more cool copper crafting recipes! Try them out by toggling Experimental Features in your world settings.

See changelog

29-8-2025

The Copper Age drop

Our next game drop has a name: The Copper Age!
Enter a new Minecraft era where you can craft this abundant metal into not only useful tools, clever storage, and oxidizing decor, but also into copper golems, who will even help organize your chests!
Don't want to wait to try out the new features? Good news: you don’t have to. They're all already available in testing. Check 'em out!
Read all about the new drop over on minecraft.net to learn more.

Read more

16-9-2025

Minecraft LIVE returns

Minecraft LIVE is coming! Our developers will give you the scoop on upcoming game drops, behind-the-scenes stories, and some still-top-secret stuff. Grab a snack, get comfy, and join us on September 27!

Read more

23-9-2025

Marketplace Autumn Sale

Celebrate the changing seasons with savings in Minecraft Marketplace! From September 23 to 30, log in daily to get up to 75% off select DLCs like worlds, add-ons, and skins. You can also grab the Owls add-on by Noxcrew for free, bringing nine different owls to help you craft, battle, and fly in your Minecraft worlds. Log in daily to catch all the deals!

30-9-2025

Fire up the furnace

Minecraft has entered the Copper Age! Express yourself in every shade of copper as you transform this versatile metal into handy tools, shiny armor, gleaming light sources, oxidizing decor, smart storage, and even lively mechanical companions known as copper golems.
Whether scraped or oxidized, this is the start of a new clonking era of creativity! Unearth the power of copper in Minecraft now!

3-10-2025

It’s October 3

You made one little mistake.
Now your armor cries at night and your pickaxe knows your secrets. Also, someone dyed the sheep pink and nobody’s owning up to it.
There’s no time to sit with us. Head to the mines and atone for your transgressions. No circles required.

13-10-2025

The Copper Cape Quest is on

You now have three ways to earn your Copper Cape between 8am PT Oct 13 and 10am PT Oct 20, 2025 (terms apply):
Place a copper golem statue in Minecraft (Bedrock Edition only)
Join the Minecraft WatchTime Quests on TikTok or Twitch to get a code
Get a code in-person at TwitchCon
One cape per account—no need to do all three. We'll see you on the copper side!
(Terms and conditions apply. Please visit the linked minecraft.net article for more information.)

See Details

14-10-2025

1.21.130.20 Beta Preview

Welcome to the 1.21.130.20 Beta and Preview! For a complete changelog visit: aka.ms/MinecraftBeta and please search for any bugs you may find at bugs.mojang.com. Here are the highlights on what's in the update:
• Get ready to master a new weapon in Minecraft: the spear!
• Unique to the spear, the Lunge enchantment gives players a burst of speed with the jab attack
• Explore Minecraft’s oceans with a new underwater mount: the nautilus!
Please remember that worlds opened on Beta Preview builds cannot be reopened on previous builds. We recommend that you always make a copy of your worlds before opening them in the new update. Beta Preview players can only connect to other players on the same build version and do not have access to Realms. More information about joining and leaving the Beta Preview can be found at aka.ms/PreviewFAQ.

Full Changelog

16-10-2025

Beat the clock in SoulSteel

Race against the clock in SoulSteel, a new multiplayer adventure from Noxcrew! Explore perilous tombs filled with puzzles, traps, and mobs. Gather parts, craft powerful weapons, and grow stronger as you go.

But beware: overstay your welcome and you’ll lose your spoils… and your chance to escape.

Many adventurers have been sent to explore these tombs... How deep do you dare venture before time runs out?

Play now

18-10-2025

Your cape is on the way

Thanks for taking part in the Copper Cape Quest! Now you've got a great new decor piece, and a glorious new cape en route. Capes will be sent to qualifying accounts by October 31. No extra steps needed. Just sit back and get ready to wear that coppery glow with pride!

22-10-2025

Halloween Costume Sale

Craft the perfect in-game costume for spooky season! Save 33% on 99 Character Creator items in the Dressing Room from October 21 to November 1. Nine new spine-chilling items rotate in daily, so check back often to give even the Overworld witches a scare. Don’t forget your frightfully festive and free Jack O’ Lantern hat!

28-10-2025

Vibrant Visuals in Marketplace

Discover Marketplace content made and updated especially for Vibrant Visuals!
Vibrant Visuals tagged packs are extra mesmerizing and are available now in Minecraft Marketplace.
Experience how Minecraft's immersive visual refresh unlocks advanced lighting, water reflections, and other graphic elements for select Marketplace content. Feel the difference with the free Vibrant Adventures world!

4-11-2025

Vibrant Visuals packs

New (and newly compatible) Vibrant Visuals packs are available in the Marketplace! You can find them with the Vibrant Visuals tag, or check out the current list of packs below. Kick off your vibrant journey with the Vibrant Adventures world, available for free!

14-11-2025

Hour of AI: The First Night

Relive your first night in Minecraft, this time with AI as your helper! Train an AI Agent to gather resources, craft tools, and build shelter before dark. Solve fun puzzles and learn why AI systems require human oversight in this Hour of AI adventure. Anyone can download and play this free tutorial in Minecraft Education!

Available Now

14-11-2025

Crafting in the Copper Age

Player MinecraftBedrockPlayer7 recereated the Eiffel Tower in survival—copper, elevators, decorations and all. Yes it woks. Yes we're screaming. And it all started with the Copper Age drop. Are you ready to dive in and craft your own copper creations?

Available Now

10-12-2025

Make way for Mounts of Mayhem

Mounts of Mayhem has charged into Minecraft! Face down undead foes in frenzied mounted combat during the day, at night, and even deep underwater. Fight back with the spear - a new tiered weapon which deals damage based on your precision and the speed of your trusted steed.
Riders of the Overworld - mount up and lead the charge. The Mounts of Mayhem drop is out now!

Play now

10-12-2025

Volcano Winter Begins

Winter arrives in SoulSteel as the volcano awakens, covering the world in ash that sparkles like snow. Port Fortuna fills with treats, decorations, and returning adventurers.
Explore new Dungeons, visit the holiday campsite, and craft glowing ember-lights pulled from the earth. But be kind, for the volcano dragon is watching. Impress him, and you might find a gift from his hoard waiting for you!

Play now

16-12-2025

Your cape is coming!

Thanks for taking part in the Spear Mayhem! Now you've got a new battle-ready cape on the way. Capes will be sent to qualifying accounts in approximately 30 days. No extra steps needed. Just sit back and get ready to charge into the fray better dressed than ever!

9-1-2026

Enter the Mob Maze

Step into Mob Maze, a roguelite multiplayer adventure with super-sized environments, available through the Bedrock Edition server tab. Explore a colossal place where you tackle challenges such as towering mobs, deadly traps, and dynamic redstone puzzles. Choose an ability, power it up, and push further with every run. Can you conquer the maze, grab the loot, and escape before it's too late?

Play now

9-1-2026

Oooooooooooooooooooh

Who lives in a pineapple in Minecraft? SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS! That's right, everyone's favorite sponge is back in the SpongeBob SquarePants Biomes. Explore 18 new Bikini Bottom biomes, like Rock Bottom, Jellyfish Fields, and Davey Jones's Locker with SpongeBob, Squidward, and all your pals. But before you drop on the deck, make sure to stop by the Marketplace to grab your free Fishhook Hat.

I'M READY!

16-1-2026

Grab your gift!

You're ready to celebrate (and impersonate) Minecraft's most iconic undead mob! As a result of your Minecoins use or purchase, you've been granted the Gold Zombie Mask Character Creator item.
Visit the Dressing Room now to equip it and bring your zombie cosplay to the gold tier!

Get it now

3-2-2026

Our favorite winter builds
This is a specialized message

Frost, fire & festive vibes
From Zombi "Gombo" Cashier's frosted tree to sky-high arenas, the community's winter builds gave us chills—in the best, snow-dusted way.
A skyward arena
We weren't kidding about the sky arena. Winter comes alive in this frosty marvel from auditore. Fortress? Cloud kingdom? Existential riddle in block form? Yes.
Tower in the pale garden
Winter in the Pale Garden biome? Stunning. At night, from outside isoluss's tower? Terrifying! But from the inside? Breathtaking. Cozy horror at its best.
Perfect symmetry
A perfect symmetrical build, like a snowflake, but one you could park a dragon on. X and HeWasSoooLoaded created winter magic with this huge, hypnotic holiday palace!
Build your own
Feeling inspired? Start your next build project today!

Play now

14-2-2026

Minecraft 26.0 Update

Minecraft 26.0 is out now, with lots of bug fixes and some experimental features for you to try out! Here are some of the highlights:
Fixed an issue that caused Nether Portals to not get ignited by lava
Improved swimming animations for the Nautilus
Experimental: Craftable nametags
Experimental: Updates to some of the baby mob variants

See changelog

17-3-2026

Explore popular packs

We're spotlighting some of the most beloved Minecraft Marketplace content! Discover a curated mix of popular packs and recent gems waiting to enhance your Minecraft worlds with epic gear, coool mobs, and more!
Actions & Stuff 1.11
RealismCraft 2.4
DWELLERS 2.1 Add-On
RELCraft Bedrock Edition 1.3
Huggy & Friends Add-On
The One Who Watches Add-On 1.0.1
Furniture Builder Add-On 3.0
Better on Bedrock v1.2.1

26-3-2026

The Tiny Takeover Drop

Ready or not, here comes the Tiny Takeover drop!
New versions of baby mobs have stormed Minecraft, causing cuteness overload across biomes and builds. Listen out for heart-melting sounds, craft name tags for your pets, and keep babies forever young with the golden dandelion. The babies are officially on the loose, so get ready to collect, coo over, and create chaos with these tiny rascals!

See more

2-4-2026

Marketplace Spring Sale

Out with the cold and in with the new!
Head to Minecraft Marketplace for this year's Spring Sale. From March 31 at 10 a.m. PT to April 6 at 10 a.m. PT, you can get up to 75% off on select Marketplace packs, like seasons and furniture add-ons. You can also get up to 33% off select Character Creator items.
Check daily for new discounts to refresh your world and let your creativity blossom!

See Details

6-5-2026

26.20 is here

Minecraft has updated to version 26.20. Check out the full changelog here. This update also brought new experimental features for testing! Turn on the Experimental features toggle in your world settings to find sulfur caves, cinnabar blocks, and a new mob, the sulfur cube! Just be sure to minde the noxious fumes, please.

See changelog

3-6-2026

Minecraft Movie Build Challenge

Enter the Minecraft Movie Build Challenge for a chance to win tickets, a private screening, or even see your creation in the movie or end credits!* Download the free challenge map from Minecraft Marketplace and get building. When you're done, capture your creation and send us your submission!*
*Open only to persons 16+. Minecraft: Bedrock Edition required (sold separately). Contest ends 7/6/2026. Warner Bros. shall determine the placement of the Build within the Movie (which placement may be in the end credits). Terms apply, see Official Rules at aka.ms/moviebuild. Sponsor: Microsoft Corporation.

See Details

5-6-2026

Prepare for action

Strategy, speed, and competition collide in GenWars, Minecraft's new high-stakes, multiplayer adventure!
Squad up to secure towers and load them wwith generators to earn in-game currency and unlock new possibilities. Raid rival bases and steal what you can before time runs out.
Losing could cost you, but the bigger the risk, the bigger the reward! Look for GenWars under the server tab!

Battle now

16-6-2026

Chaos Cubed is here!

The Chaos Cubed game drop has arrived in Minecraft! Explore a striking new cave biome filled with sulfur and cinnabar, build with colorful new block sets, and meet the sulfur cube, a new mob with a curious appetite for blocks. Watch it absorb different blocks and then bounce, slide, and cause cahos. Plus, Parties for Bedrock (beta) makes playing with friends easier than ever. Play now!

Play now

30-6-2026

Hot days, hotter deals

This summer don't sweath the small stuff, because the Marketplace Summer Sale is here with big savings! From June 30 at 10 a.m. PT to July 28 at 10 a.m. PT, get up to 33% off over 300 select sale items, like RealismCraft and Huggy & Friends add-on. Take advantage of 75% off select daily doorbusters running from June 30 to July 14, including DWELLERS 2.1 add-on, Actions & Stuff 1.10, and many more!

Available now

2-7-2026

Vote for the winner

Which build should win the Minecraft Movie Build Challenge? See how to vote at aka.ms/votingevent.
Warner Bros. shall determine the placement of the Build within the Movie (which placement may be in the end credits). For details, see Official Rules at aka.ms/moviebuild. Requires Minecraft Bedrock (sold separately). Online play may require subscription on some platforms (sold separately). Terms apply.

Vote now

10-7-2026

Marketplace Pass Free Weekend
Expiration timer

Ever wondered what's inside Marketplace Pass? From July 10-12, the full catalog is free for all Bedrock players signed into a Microsoft account. Dig into handy add-on, iconic skin packs, and mesmerizing worlds. More content, more ways to play. Find something you love? Purchase it or subscribe to Marketplace Pass to keep playing after the weekend wraps!

Available now

13-7-2026

Found something you love?

You spent the weekend exploring Marketplace Pass. Maybe you found a new favorite world. Maybe you discovered an add-on you'll never stop talking about. Maybe you downloaded three skin packs and immediately declared them essential. Subscribe to keep exploring a rotating catalog of worlds, add-ons, skin packs, and more!

Available now

14-7-2026

Ascend into the Aether

What if there was a dimension opposite the Nether? Now there is! Build a glowstone portal and step into a breathtaking sky dimension filled with floating islands, new biomes, rare ores, wild moas, valkyries, and three legendary bosses. Just watch your step. The sky is beautiful, but you're in for a very long fall if you slip. Take to the sky in Aether Legends today!

Available Now

31-7-2026

OneBlock Online

What will you build from just one block? In OneBlock Online, a multiplayer Minecraft adventure, every break opens a new possibility! Mine through evolving phases like jungle, desert, Nether, and End, unlocking new materials as you grow. Team up with friends to trade, complete quests, and turn your island into something unforgettable. Finde OneBlock Online in the server tab.

Available now

4-8-2026

26.40 is here

Minecraft has updated to version 26.40. Check out the full changelog here. This update also brought new experimental features for testing, including a new biome, a new tree, and a new structure... the Abandoned Camp!  Turn on the Experimental features toggle in your world settings to play with these new features and more.

See changelog

4-8-2026

Now available: PC Cloud Storage

PC Cloud Storage can help protect your Minecraft worlds by backing them up to the cloud. To avoid delays and increased bandwidth usage, existing worlds won't be backed up automatically. You can upload worlds manually in the World Storage Settings, or upload all eligible worlds now if you're okay with waiting while backup completes.

Learn more

6-8-2026

Three dimensions collide, one survives

Dominate the skies in Dimension Clash, a new multiplayer adventure! Join team Overworld, Nether, or End, and battle across floating islands to capture and defend essences. Collect five essences in your base shrine to win, but it won't come easy! While you're out conquering, someone could be taking over yours. You'll need to be strategic, form alliances, and even break a few if you want to win!

Pick a side

7-8-2026

Help test Minecraft on Nintendo Switch 2

Minecraft is coming to Nintendo Switch 2, and we need your help! You've been selected to participate in the beta to play early, experience faster load times, smoother gameplay, and share your feedback to help shape the final release. We've already granted you access, so just follow the link in this message to download the super-secret beta version from the Nintendo store page.

Unlock Beta

11-8-2026

More sulfur cubes, more ways to play

Discover seven innovative packs inspired by sulfur cubes' unique physics and surprising possibilities. Master trick shots, race bouncing cubes, play golf, uncover ancient sulfur dungeons, experiment in interactive lags, break arcade records, and create living blasters! Whether you love competition, creativity, or experimentation, there's something for you. Find your favorite in the Marketplace/

Explore more

22-8-2026

Grab your pickaxe

Gold and glory await in Treasure Hunt, anew multiplayer mining adventure! Build streaks and face off against up to 20 players at a time in daily challenges. Gather resourcers to upgrade your picakxe and unlock new abilities. If you need an extra hand (or paw), enlist a Pet to help dig. Master the mines to see if you'll rank on the leaderboard! Look for Treasure Hunt in your server tab.

Play now

22-8-2026

Autobot and Decepticons collide

Autobots, roll out. Decepticons, rise up. The TRANSFORMERS add-on is coming to Minecraft! Morph into one of 12 characterss, including Optimus Prime and Megatron, each with unique abilities, weapons, and vehicles. Take on players in four different battle modes, like Deathmatch or Last Man Standing. Customize your look with a free Character Creator item!

Available now

Realms
Messages highlighted in green are only available for Realms subscribers.

Date

Thumbnail
Title
Body
Link

11-7-2024

Start a new Realms adventure

With Realms, you get your own personal server, and you can invite up to 10 friends to play with you.
You can keep in touch with your fellow players using Realms Stories: a new in-game social feed that lets you connect, build, and celebrate together, even when you're far apart!
A Realms Plus subscription also comes with a catalog of things you can try out from Marketplace including skins, worlds, add-ons, and more. What are you waiting for? Grab your friends and start a new adventure with Realms today.

START YOUR REALM

22-6-2025

Chase the Skies on Realms Plus

Rally your friends and set out on soaring adventures together with Realms Plus! Race your happy ghasts through sky-high builds, plan raids in the Nether, or marvel at the Vibrant Visuals sunsets with up to 10 friends on your own, always-online server.
With new content added to your Marketplace Pass catalog (included in Realms Plus) on release day you won't have to wait to fuel the fun. Subscribe to Realms Plus today!

Available now

14-1-2026

Introducing Realms Saves

Backups have leveled up to Saves! Realms now auto-save every 30 minutes and at session end—but you can also trigger a save whenever you want.
With your own storage bank, you can keep important worlds safe forever. Each save remembers your world's settings, name, and packs—so nothing gets lost.

8-5-2026

One screen, total control

Your Realm deserves a proper base of operations. Realm Hub brings your world, members, and settings together in one place, right from the Realms Play screen.
Share adventures in the story feed, hand off admin powers to trusted players, switch world slots, and fine-tune your settings. No more digging through menus. It's all here.

Head to Hub

6-7-2026

Realms have Admins

There's a new Realms role available: Admin. Now owners can assing trusted members to help manage settings and keep things running smoothly, and with the new Admin log, you can track exactly what changed while you were away. That means no mystery setting changes, all you future admins. The Realm owner keeps receipts!

Manage Realms

Invites
In the Invites tab, Realms invites from players are shown. Any player can send invites to players they are mutual friends with. Accepting the invite adds the Realm to the Play screen; declining the invite removes the option to accept and requires a new invite to be sent. On the details screen, it shows the option to view the player's profile.


			Realm invites in the Invites tab



			A Realm invite details


Marketplace Pass
A Marketplace Pass message
The Marketplace Pass tab announces content being added to the subscription, or leaving soon, visible to subscribers only. A list of content, showing the image, name, and author, linking to the Marketplace or Dressing Room purchase page, is always present. There are three types of messages:

Thumbnail example
Title
Body

See what's new for month

There are new skin packs, add-ons, worlds, and more available with your Marketplace Pass or Realms Plus subscription. Check them out here.

Some packs are leaving in month

The packs below are leaving soon from the Marketplace Pass catalog, included with your Realms Plus subscription. Be sure to check them out before they're gone!

Free items with your Marketplace Pass

Are you getting everything you can out of Marketplace Pass? Each month, Pass features a free Character Creator set in the Dressing Room. However, that set is only free for that month. If you don't claim it, you miss out. And we don't want you missing out on cool, free perks!

Before Marketplace Pass was separated from Realms Plus, these messages appeared in the Realms tab instead.
One message is always shown to non-subscribers, which includes a list of content as well.

Thumbnail
Title
Body
Link

Get more with Marketplace Pass

Each gaming session is an adventure with Marketplace Pass! Discover curated premium content like worlds, add-ons, skin packs, and more - refreshed monthly. Start your free trial today!

Learn more

Feedback
A feedback poll
The Feedback tab is usually empty with links to bugs.mojang.com and feedback.minecraft.net. It can show a feedback poll where the player can send feedback to Mojang Studios.

Image

Date

Title

Body

Options

June 17, 2026

GAME DROP

The sulfur cube just bounced into Minecraft! How do you feel about the Chaos Cubed drop?

Love it!
It's okay
Not for me

August 28, 2026

REALMS ADMIN FEATURE

What do you think of the new Admin features introduced in the Realms Hub?

Love it
I don't need it

August 30, 2026

VIBRANT VISUALS ON SWITCH™ 2

How satisfied are you with the balance of performance and graphics quality when using Vibrant Visuals?

Very satisfied
Mostly satisfied
Not satisfied

History
Bedrock Edition1.20.60Preview 1.20.60.23
 Added the Inbox, replacing the button to the Realm invites on the main menu.
Gallery



			A specialized inbox message



			A Marketplace Pass message


Notes

 The date may vary per user. This is the earliest known date of the message.

 6ac55b36-b539-4f49-a0ee-89cc2c60cfb7

 /marketplace?pageId=MultiItemPage_StoreRoot&origin=PlayerMessaging

 /persona?itemId=99ea16b5-87fa-4bf1-b84d-1a97af77e23d

 /marketplace?pageId=MultiItemPage_StoreRoot&origin=PlayerMessaging

 Sent to players eligible for obtaining the Copper Cape

 Sent to players eligible for obtaining the Zombie Horse Cape

 Available for Nintendo Switch players that were enrolled in the beta

 The date may vary per user. This is the earliest known date of the message.

 Only for Realms subscribers

 Only for users enrolled in the Nintendo Switch 2 closed beta

Navigation