This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Inspiration Island

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Release date

November 8, 2018

Website page

Inspiration Island in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Inspiration Island free on Marketplace"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Inspiration Island",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 8, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=d81708d9-0b92-4781-9296-573da94d0063 Inspiration Island in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/inspiration-island-free-marketplace \"Inspiration Island free on Marketplace\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Inspiration Island is a Marketplace map that is designed around creative mode, gifting the player a vast island designed to inspire them to create and innovate.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Mirror
1.2 Pixel Art Map
1.3 Red Stone
1.4 Story Time
1.5 Terra Form
1.6 Bonus area

2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Announcement
3.2 Bedrock Edition
3.3 Appearances

4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Promotional images
4.3 Screenshots

5 External links
6 Navigation

Summary
The first area of the map.
After selecting "Redstone Mansion" in the world selection screen, the player spawns in a chamber lined with dark prismarine, chiseled quartz, end rods, and sea lanterns, with an on-screen instruction telling the player to walk and a nearby sign telling players to look at signs. Walking beyond the sign, players discover a collection of miniature biomes, which can be filled with mobs by using pressure plates, buttons, levers, and tripwires. Further instructions lie in the center, including a brick wall players are encouraged to break, a spot of glazed terracotta where players are encouraged to place, a wall of lava players are encouraged to walk through. On the other side are a collection of small walls that encourage the player to fly over, leading to another wall high up meant to be broken, revealing Inspiration Island.

Overhead view of the town.
Dropping down onto purple wool, players follow an arrow to a sign welcoming them to the island, and then a map of the map. Surrounding this road are several buildings. On the right side are a Farmer's Market, Sports Shop, Bank, and on the left a Terracotta Art Gallery, Jewelry Store, and Bakery. The Farmer's Market is an open storefront with a red and white awning, and several melons, pumpkins, sponges, and red mushroom blocks on shelves. In a nearby pen are a pig, chicken, leatherworker and librarian. The Sports Shop contains a fireworks show, which can be activated by placing four blocks of redstone, while the bank holds many double chests full of gold ingots and emeralds locked behind a piston door, unlocked by two levers. The Terracotta Art Gallery is merely a collection of glazed terracotta displayed on walls, with a cleric behind a desk. The Jewelry Store is similar to the Sports Shop, but with the blocks going on the floor and triggering dispensers to shoot diamonds, emeralds, ender pearls and nether stars. The Bakery holds several cakes, with a sign lamenting that players don't have hunger in creative mode.
Beyond that is a small grove, surrounded by redstone lamps encased in stained glass, containing demonstrations of a garden and home, with accompanying chests containing supplies to complete them. On the lamps are signs, telling the player to locate the "five secrets" of the island to light them up, but also warn that "[the player] might want to lower [their] music as well...". Surrounding the entrances to the areas are several more miniature building opportunities. Between Mirror and Terra Form is a pond, meant to be filled with squids, while between Story Time and Mirror is a spruce fence meant to be filled with chickens hatched from thrown eggs.

Mirror
Mirror.
Set inside of a badlands biome, Mirror is a simple building activity, where players are tasked with completing a build by creating a mirror of it. There are two options, one hard and one easy. The easy option is to the right, marked by the redstone lamps. The statue is that of an agent, made of light gray, brown, pink, red, gray, white, and black concrete, as well as light gray terracotta. The hard option is a birch hourglass, floating in midair, made of birch planks, glass, light blue concrete powder, blocks of quartz, smooth stone slabs, spruce slabs, and birch, spruce, and dark oak stairs. Below it are instructions on how to place stairs.
The secret lever can be found easily, simply below the logo, which itself is behind a large lake with a formation in the center. Next to the hard build is a path into Terra Form, through a cave.

Pixel Art Map
Closeup of the base area.
Entering through a gate consisting of a large diamond pickaxe, water bottle, flint, raw porkchop, blaze powder, and dandelion, Pixel Map Art teaches players on map art. As seen from above, there are three templates, in the form of a cat and dog, a human face, and a detailed landscape with a visible house and clouds. The path into the area begins as several brick blocks, transitioning into concrete patterned like bricks before ending at instructions. There are three challenges, each increasing in difficulty. The easiest is to color in a cat and dog picture, while the medium is to redesign a face build into a self portrait. The hardest is to simply build whatever the player wants, inside a large empty space.
To the left are several chests containing colored blocks, right of that a chest with filled maps of the area, and then an armor stand holding a map in front of an item frame to help keep track of progress. Behind the supplies is a large tower shaped like a pencil, which can be climbed. At the top is an observatory with extra maps, and a sign instructing players to take a picture of the view. A second pencil is not far away, and between both is an entrance to Story Time, in the shape of gate resembling a library with a giant book logo. To the right are a build of a palette made of stripped birch wood, with shulker boxes hidden amongst the paint, containing further supplies for building and signs explaining how they function.
Surrounding the area are several tall, magenta buildings and a landscape of a mountain, with a visible cabin, pirate ship, and cave. Approaching the cave makes it apparent it's actually an enterable hole, and inside the player discovers the landscape is seemingly intended to be cardboard. Following the redstone lamp lines leads to the secret lever, inside of the area's logo.

Red Stone
The crater in Red Stone.
Red Stone is found by entering into an expansive cave, made of blocks of iron, redstone lamps, pistons, slime blocks, and redstone ores. The other side of the cave leads to a collection of examples on redstone mechanics, such as levers, buttons, pressure plates, and minecarts. Pulling a lever leads to a series of redstone repeaters through an erupting redstone volcano, past several other tutorials. One is a large contraption using sticky pistons, placing down repeaters open a glass door into a large, vacant room made of white concrete. Referred to as the "Secret Base Building Area," players are encouraged to build a secret base, or a hidden door into Pixel Map Art.
Returning to the path, the player ends up behind a redstone lamp sign. There is a large assortment of redstone blocks, with a chest of potential replacement parts. In the back of the area is another iron cave, illuminated by redstone torches, eventually leading to a pit of lava. The secret lever can be found by following the purple wires, walking past a minecart rail that wraps around the whole area. Climbing up the mountain leads to a checkerboard, with a chest of redstone blocks and an encouragement to build something in a 10×10 space. A similar, 8×3 space is found somewhat off from the path, and at the end is the secret lever. If the player doesn't want to fly the way there, they can take the minecart, which stops upon reaching the summit. A player who wants to continue the track is taken up the mountain, into the mountain, into the volcano past a chest, above the volcano, behind the logo, through the cave, and eventually back at the start of the track.

Story Time
Overhead of Story Time.
Story Time is set inside a collection of gigantic bookshelves, with the player entering down a massive flight of stairs, the floor being an enormous cyan carpet, and a giant table housing a build of a knight fighting a dragon in the center. Approaching the table, players can find a gigantic book, the pages having two separate builds themed around racing, the left an awards podium and the right a car. In front of the book is a chest holding many blocks and items, including a book called The Big Race credited to one Gernie Rubhar, which gives instructions on a building challenge.

The Big Race
Storytime Challenge!
In Minecraft, you can use items in different ways to make them look like something else.
In the giant book, a scene has been partially created.
Choose blocks and items from the chest or your inventory.
Then, finish the scene by completing these challenges!
Easy:
Finish the race car.
Medium:
Build a trophy at the finish line.
Hard: Make the whole rug into a race track.

Flying above to the table reveal a second challenge, with an accompanying book; Dragon's Defeat by Medea Ville.

Dragon's Defeat
Storytime Challenge!
In Minecraft, you can use items in different ways to make them look like something else.
In the giant book, a scene has been partially created.
Choose blocks and items from the chest or your inventory.
Then, finish the scene by completing these challenges!
Easy:
Create a weapon for the knight.
Medium:
Give the dragon wings.
Hard: Make your own dragon and knight.

The secret lever can be found on the walls of the area, above the grounds but below the sign, lighting up a wire of lights that fall under the carpet. The right wall of the area contains a multicolored wool staircase up to Pixel Map Art. To the right is a somewhat obscure area, represented by a burned hole in a book. Entering it reveals two more build challenges. To the right side is a gray alien with a test tube, which has the story Alien Experiment by Gene Omorff, and to the left is an ocean ruin and stone brick pedestal, which has the story Ancient Artifact by Savannah Stone.

Alien Experiment
Storytime Challenge!
In Minecraft, you can use items in different ways to make them look like something else.
In the giant book, a scene has been partially created.
Choose blocks and items from the chest or your inventory.
Then, finish the scene by completing these challenges!
Easy:
Make something for the alien to examine.
Medium:
Create your own alien.
Hard: Carve out more room and add a spaceship.

Ancient Artifact
Storytime Challenge!
In Minecraft, you can use items in different ways to make them look like something else.
In the giant book, a scene has been partially created.
Choose blocks and items from the chest or your inventory.
Then, finish the scene by completing these challenges!
Easy:
Equip the explorers armor in armor and gear.
Medium:
Build a treasure on the pedestal.
Hard: Create a trap around it.

At the opposite side of the room is a mineshaft leading into Mirror, with a chest of rails and minecart adjacent items, encouraging players to make a track around the island.

Terra Form
The surface of Terra Form.
Walking under packed ice and stone stalactites, players find Terra Form to be a vacant landscape. A sign on purpur pillars instructs the player to grow plants with bone meal, an immediate chest containing eight and numerous plants, from saplings to flowers. Following the stained glass infrastructure, players are led to a podzol region with a similar chest, containing buckets. A set of signs teach the player how to use buckets on water, with a hole marked by magenta glazed terracotta to teach infinite water by placing on corners. Flying upward, players can also find a small river beginning in what appears to be an intersecting shattered savanna.
Returning to the front is a beach, with a chest intended for the "Sandcastle Building Area," including blocks like sand, sandstone, acacia, and banners. Nearby are two more chests, one on a frozen ocean microbiome with ice and snow for building igloos, and another in the waters, surrounded by sea pickles and intended for building a coral reef. The secret lever can be found easily, by simply following the lightline up to the logo, perched on an iceberg.

Bonus area



Spoiler warning! 
This article contains detailed information about Minecraft that may spoil your enjoyment of discovering the game's secrets for yourself. Read at your own risk!

Spoiler
Upon activating all the secret levers, a brick stairway surrounded by blocks of diamond, end rods, and beacons appear in the center of the island, right between the three signs and the house. Its appearance damages the arrow, the carpets being found dropped on the way down. Traveling down the expansive staircase leads the player to underneath the map, where they discover a chest giving them one final block, command blocks.
The surrounding area is large and empty, with scant machines for the player to experiment with. Behind the chest is a command block, which can teleport the player to any of four rooms: the Stone Room, the Red Room, the Black Room, and Green Room. The player is encouraged to teleport to these rooms by inputting the coordinates, but they can also be found by exploring the wider area made of endstone, accessed from a shaft that can have a ladder enabled or disabled by a command.
The Stone Room is reachable by default, with a cobblestone floor and stone brick walls lined with redstone torches. The Red Room is made primarily of netherrack, with scarce nether bricks, red nether bricks, nether quartz ore and glowstone distributed in diagonal shapes. The Green Room is made of prismarine, with sea lanterns positioned in the walls in a wave pattern, and prismarine bricks and dark prismarine placed arbitrarily. The Black Room is made almost exclusively of black concrete, redstone lamps, and endstone. If the player wants to return to the White Room, where they came from, they can press a similar setup.
Next to the teleporter are controls for the world itself. On the left, are three command blocks that can make it rain, activate a thunderstorm, or clear the sky. To the right are controls for the sun, enabling it to set or rise on command.

Quotes
“Visit Inspiration Island, a floating theme park world filled with creative challenges. Whether you are new to Creative Mode or just need a little extra inspiration, a visit here sets you on the path to craft your own groundbreaking worlds. By the time you leave the island, you’ll be a true blue creator, armed with loads of skills to make awesome things!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Announcement
September 29, 2018
Inspiration Island is announced at Minecon Earth 2018.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionNovember 8, 2018
Inspiration Island is released on the Marketplace.
Appearances
December 13, 2021
Inspiration Island is featured in the documentary Power On: The Story of Xbox.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Pack icon.


Promotional images



			Panorama of the map.



			Mirror.



			Overhead shop of Pixel Map Art.



			A track in Red Stone.



			Inside Story Time.



			The arch into Terra Form.


Screenshots



			Alternate view of the plazas, with a visible logo for the map.



			The Bank.



			The Sports Shop.



			The Farmer's Market.



			The Terracotta Art Gallery.



			The Jewelry Store.



			The Bakery.



			The directory.







			The secret lever in Mirror.







			The secret lever in Pixel Map Art.







			The second iron cave in Red Stone.



			Inside the redstone volcano.



			The secret lever in Red Stone.



			A shot of the logo and volcano in Red Stone.























			The secret lever in Terra Form.


External links
Everything we announced at Minecon Earth 2018 – Minecraft.net on September 29, 2018
Navigation