Not to be confused with Workstation.

 This is an index of related pages that share a common conceptual attribute. Unlike disambiguation pages, it can be linked to internally if the article text is relevant to all items in the index.However, if an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.
Interactable blocks are blocks with functionalities accessed with pressing use while looking at it.

Contents

1 Mechanics of use on block
2 Interactable blocks without items

2.1 Blocks with GUI
2.2 Other

3 Interactable blocks with item
4 Items that can be used in blocks
5 Notes
6 Navigation

Mechanics of use on block
When a player is pressing use and is looking at an interaction box of a block within its interaction range, and there are no mob hitboxes in between, then they attempt to interact with the block.
There are three types of interaction. The first two are defined by the block (although the item in hand can influence the first) and the last is defined by the item (although the interacted block can influence it). In order of attempted interaction:

Use item on block (focused on the block)
Use block without item
Use item on block (focused on the item)
If the player sneaking and has an item in hand, the first two uses of the blocks are ignored and the attempt directly goes to the last one. Otherwise, the player attempts use one; if successful, the interaction ends. Otherwise, depending on the result of the use one, they may have to perform use two or skip straight to use three. If they attempt use two, and fail, they will attempt use three, otherwise if successful, the interaction ends.
Only some blocks have a specific effect for use with an item (1) or use without items (2), and only some items have use on blocks (3). If a block does not have a specific interaction for using an item on it (1), using an item on it will simply attempt to use the block without an item (2). For (2) and (3), if a block or item does not have a specific use, attempting to use it will fail.
The swing animation is only applied when there is some success (in any of the use).
Using a block without an item does not necessarily mean the player has no item in hand; instead it simply means using the block without considering the item. Similarly, it is possible to use an item on a block even when the hand is empty.
In Java Edition, when the first or third attempt is successful, the advancement trigger minecraft:item_used_on_block is activated, and if the second case is a success, trigger minecraft:default_block_use is activated. Subsequently, in any successful case, the minecraft:any_block_use trigger is activated.

Interactable blocks without items
Blocks with GUI
Blocks with GUI, show a menu that you can use to interact with it. These Interactions include crafting, smelting, storing, brewing, smithing, enchanting, and other functions.
Chests only open if there is no redstone conductor block above them or a cat sitting on top of them, in the case of a double chest, the same condition is necessary for a connected chest. Shulker boxes only open if their opening (0.5 blocks towards the top) does not have any collision with the collision box of another block. Ender chests only open if there is no redstone conductor block above them.
These, and only these, blocks can be integrated in spectator mode, except for the blocked chests and ender chests.
Open a barrel, any chest (incluid ender chest), or a shulker box also anger nearby piglins. In Java Edition, interacting with these blocks also increases the associated status, exect the crafting table and the enchanting table.
Blocks whose GUI depends on the block entity

Furnace
Blast Furnace
Smoker
Barrel
Beacon
Brewing Stand
Chest
Copper Chests
Trapped Chest
Crafter
Dispenser
Dropper
Enchanting Table
Hopper
Lectern
Shulker Boxes
Blocks whose GUI depends on the player

Ender Chest
Other

Anvils
Cartography Table
Crafting Table
Grindstone
Loom
Smithing Table
Stonecutter
Other
Interacting blocks without item that don't open a menu. Blocks like signs, command blocks, and structure blocks set a new screen, but these are not considered menus. Unlike menus, they are opened by the local player and not the server player​[more information needed].

Beds
Bell
Buttons
Cake
Cake with Candle
Cake with Dyed Candles
Cave Vines
Cave Vines Plant
Chiseled Bookshelf
Command Blocks
Comparator
Composter (level 8)
Daylight Detector
Decorated Pot
Doors
Dragon Egg
Fences
Fence Gates
‌‌‌‌⋯ All Potted Plants/Fungi
Jigsaw Block
Jukebox
Lever
Light
Note Block
Redstone Wire
Repeater
Respawn Anchor
Signs (Wall Signs)
Hanging Signs (Wall Hanging Signs)
Structure Block
Sweet Berry Bush
Test Block
Test Instance Block
‌‌Trapdoors (except iron)
Moving Piston (practically never)
Interactable blocks with item
Blocks that can be interacted with while holding an item, and the behavior is defined by the block.
Some blocks use a certain item, it doesn't create a specific block behavior, but rather blocks or allows another interaction. For example, using the plant/fungi in a pot already prevents the plant/fungi from being removed from the pot, or uses a block in a redstone ore,  could try placing it beyond the usual interaction (using other items, like a bucket of water, doesn't attempt use 3).

Cauldron
Water Cauldron
Lava Cauldron
Powder Snow Cauldron
Beehive
Bee Nest
Cake
Campfire
Soul Campfire
Candle
Dyed Candles
Cake with Candle
Cakes with Dyed Candle
Chiseled Bookshelf
Composter
Copper Golem Statues
Decorated Pot
Flower Pot
‌‌‌‌⋯ All Potted Plants/Fungi
Jukebox
Lectern
Note Block
Pumpkin
Redstone Ores
Respawn Anchor
Shelves
Signs (Wall Signs)
Hanging Signs (Wall Hanging Signs)
Sweet Berry Bush
TNT
Vault
Items that can be used in blocks



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Probably another article should be created for this, and linked here with {{main}}. In a way, it's still within the scope of the article because they are interactable blocks, but in this case almost all blocks fit (except for blocks without an interaction box and without liquid), as they can be interacted with in the positioning of blocks (either to choose or determine the state of the block positioned next to it, or to be replaced) or picked up by bucket.

An item that can be interacted with blocks, and whose behavior is determined by the item.

Notes

 When there is no item in hand, the item considered is air; in Java Edition this can have an effect if minecraft:air is in certain item tag.

 A cat is considered to be on top of a chest if any part of there hitbox is inside a 1×1×1 box above the chest.

 Try binding player leashed mobs

 Technically, the light is interacting without items; however, its interaction box is empty when not holding a light, making interaction impossible.

 When interacting with a moving piston, if there is no block entity in the position, it is removed. However, its interaction box is always empty, and it is expected that there will always be a block entity in the position. This interaction is probably only for bug fixes and not for gameplayer functionality.

Navigation