This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

Invalid data value Cobblestone Wall

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Invalid data value Cobblestone Wall",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Missing Model JE3.png"
    ]
}

Invalid data value cobblestone walls are item forms of the cobblestone wall block with damage values outside of the usual range which cobblestone walls can usually be obtained in.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Transmutation

2 Usage

2.1 Placement

3 History
4 Issues
5 External links
6 Navigation

Obtaining
Without the use of commands, invalid data value cobblestone walls are unobtainable in the last versions in which they existed without inheriting them from a prior version in which they were obtainable.

Transmutation
Block transmutation with doors can be used to obtain cobblestone walls with metadata 4 and 5, and with arrows any metadata from 2 to 15 can be obtained. These blocks can be mined in 14w21b or earlier to obtain the item corresponding to these blocks.
For arrow transmutation, the initial block being transmuted must be a non-mossy cobblestone wall, i.e. a cobblestone wall block with metadata value 0. Mossy cobblestone walls cannot be transmuted. Any connections a cobblestone wall has to adjacent blocks are irrelevant, as these are not controlled by metadata.

Usage
Placement



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

History



This section is missing information about: Wall page says that mossy cobblestone walls don't drop themselves until 12w36a. Does this also apply to extreme DVs? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition1.4.212w34a
 Cobblestone walls have been added. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how block and item metadata is handled.1.814w10a
 The inventory icon for walls has had its top texture mapping changed, which also changes the appearance of the invalid versions.14w25a
 With the introduction of data-driven item models, any item with a data value outside of what is accepted by the game has no model to point to, resulting in use of the missing item model.14w30a
Invalid data value cobblestone walls, alongside other invalid data value items, now appear the size of a full block when held in third person or by another player or mob.1.915w31a
 The missing model's inventory appearance has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value cobblestone walls also changing.

The items also appear the size of a full block when held in first person and when dropped on the ground, and also appear larger than before in an item frame.1.1317w43a
 The missing texture has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value cobblestone walls also changing.17w47a
Numeric IDs for blocks and items have been completely removed from the game. As a result, invalid data value cobblestone walls have been "removed" as they now convert into normal cobblestone wall items.
Issues
Invalid data value cobblestone walls are an issue, and due to their removal, can be considered already fixed.

External links
Invalid Data Value Cobblestone Wall at the Minecraft Discontinued Features wiki
Navigation