This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

Invalid data value Lapis Lazuli Ore

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Invalid data value Lapis Lazuli Ore",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Missing Model JE3.png"
    ]
}

Invalid data value lapis lazuli ore refers to item forms of the lapis lazuli ore block with damage values outside of the usual range which lapis lazuli ore can usually be obtained in.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Falling blocks
1.2 Stacking

2 Usage

2.1 Placement

3 History
4 Issues
5 References
6 Navigation

Obtaining
Falling blocks
If a falling block of lapis lazuli ore stops in a position where it cannot convert to a placed block, such as on a torch or slab, it will drop as an item entity, as all falling blocks do. For lapis lazuli ore in particular, the damage associated with the dropped item will be 4, due to this also being the value associated with lapis lazuli to differentiate it from other dye items at that time.
While such a falling block can easily be created with commands, encountering one in typical Survival gameplay is impossible as the block is not affected by gravity. Actually generating such an entity in Survival is a comically involved process, but is ultimately achievable without mods, world editing, or command usage. A full explanation would be out of the scope of this page, but can be found here.

Stacking
As lapis lazuli ore as an item does not track its damage value for any purpose, invalid data value lapis lazuli ore can be created by picking up dropped normal lapis lazuli ore with an incomplete stack of invalid data value lapis lazuli ore already in the inventory, as well as merging together existing item stacks. This can also result in invalid data value lapis lazuli ore being converted to non-anomalous lapis lazuli ore in the same way, and therefore care should be taken when transporting such items.

Usage
Placement



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

History
Java Edition Beta1.2
 Lapis lazuli ore has been added. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how block and item metadata is handled.

Since damage values use the value which tools use for durability, invalid Lapis lazuli ore items have a durability bar.1.4
 The durability bar has been removed from lapis lazuli ore with higher damage values.1.6Test Build 3
 All 3D items now appear much brighter and are rotated 90 degrees clockwise from their previous positions.1.8Pre-release
 All 3D items now appear even brighter than previously, with almost no shading.Java Edition1.0.0RC2
 All 3D items are now shaded more reasonably.1.3.112w22a
 Most 3D items in the inventory have been rotated 90 degrees anti-clockwise.?
Falling lapis lazuli ore entities now drop invalid data value lapis lazuli ore items; previously they would drop the correct value of 0.1.4.212w34a
 Items appeared slightly darker in the player's inventory than in chests prior to this version.?
Using Pick Block on placed lapis lazuli ore in Creative mode will return this item.1.814w25a
 With the introduction of data-driven item models, any item with a data value outside of what is accepted by the game has no model to point to, resulting in use of the missing item model.14w30a
Invalid data value lapis lazuli ore, alongside other invalid data value items, now appear the size of a full block when held in third person or by another player or mob.?
Pick Block on placed lapis lazuli ore in Creative mode now returns the normal block, rather than this invalid variant.1.915w31a
 The missing model's inventory appearance has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value lapis lazuli ore also changing.

The items also appear the size of a full block when held in first person and when dropped on the ground, and also appear larger than before in an item frame.1.1317w43a
 The missing texture has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value lapis lazuli ore also changing.17w47a
Numeric IDs for blocks and items have been completely removed from the game. As a result, invalid data value lapis lazuli ore has been "removed" as any such item now converts cleanly into regular lapis lazuli ore.
Issues
Invalid data value lapis lazuli ore is an issue, and due to its removal, can be considered already fixed.

References

 "Discovering a new Illegal Item and getting 75+ falling blocks - Technical Unobtained 13"  – Marpace on YouTube, September 8, 2024

 MC-59043 – Using "Pick Block" on lapis lazuli ore creates missing texture – resolved as "Fixed".

Navigation