This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

Invalid data value Cactus

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Invalid data value Cactus",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Missing Model JE3.png"
    ]
}

Invalid data value cacti are item forms of the cactus block with damage values outside of the usual range which cactus can usually be obtained in.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Endermen
1.2 Stacking

2 Usage

2.1 Placement
2.2 Potted cacti

3 History
4 Issues
5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Obtaining
Without the use of commands, invalid data value cacti are unobtainable in the last versions in which they existed without inheriting them from a prior version in which they were obtainable.

Endermen
The growth state of a cactus block is stored in the block's metadata as a value from 0 to 15. When an enderman picks up a cactus, this value is saved, and when killed, it will drop an item with that metadata value set as its damage. For 0, this is a normal cactus, but any value from 1 to 15 will result in an invalid data value cactus.
The first version this is possible in is 15w31a (when endermen became capable of dropping held blocks), and the last version is 16w21b, as the first pre-release for 1.10 fixed this issue.
Note that while there are 15 distinct possible invalid cactus variants, there is no way to tell in-game which cactus is obtained; damage is not listed after the block's numeric ID if advanced tooltips are enabled, and all cacti will stack with each other regardless of damage value, making collecting each individual type difficult. Only external tools will display the damage associated with these items.

Stacking
As cacti as an item do not track their damage value for any purpose, invalid data value cacti can be created by picking up dropped normal cacti with an incomplete stack of invalid data value cacti already in the inventory, as well as merging together existing item stacks. This can also result in invalid data value cacti being converted to non-anomalous cacti in the same way, and therefore care should be taken when transporting such items. As such, if collection of all 15 different types of cacti is desired, they should be stored in a storage container such as a chest in different slots via manual placement - shift-clicking should be avoided.

Usage
Placement



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Potted cacti
Unlike placement in the world as a block, invalid data value cacti placed inside a flower pot will preserve their metadata, and breaking the potted cactus will drop a cactus with that specific damage value.

History
Java Edition Alphav1.0.6
Cactus has been added. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how block and item metadata is handled.

Since damage values use the value which tools use for durability, invalid cactus items have a durability bar.Java Edition Beta1.4
The durability bar has been removed from cacti with higher damage values.Java Edition1.814w25a
 With the introduction of data-driven item models, any item with a data value outside of what is accepted by the game has no model to point to, resulting in use of the missing item model.14w30a
Invalid data value cacti, alongside other invalid data value items, now appear the size of a full block when held in third person or by another player or mob.1.915w31a
 The missing model's inventory appearance has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value sandstone also changing.

The items also appear the size of a full block when held in first person and when dropped on the ground, and also appear larger than before in an item frame.

As endermen now drop the block they are holding, invalid data value cacti are now legitimately obtainable in Survival mode.1.10pre1
Endermen no longer drop invalid data value cacti.1.1317w43a
 The missing texture has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value sandstone also changing.17w47a
Numeric IDs for blocks and items have been completely removed from the game. As a result, invalid data value cactus has been "removed" as any such item now converts cleanly into regular cactus.
Inventory appearances

From version

Damage value

Notes

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

Alpha v1.0.6

Alpha v1.0.11

The cactus model is now different.

Beta 1.2

The durability bar appears slightly emptier.

Beta 1.4

The durability bar is no longer present.

Beta 1.6

Test Build 3

All 3D items now appear much brighter and are rotated 90 degrees clockwise from their previous positions.

Beta 1.8

Pre-release

All 3D items now appear even brighter than previously, with almost no shading.

1.0.0

RC2

All 3D items are now shaded more reasonably.

1.4.2

12w34a

Items appeared slightly darker in the player's inventory than in chests prior to this version.

1.8

14w06a

The item appears to have been rotated 90 degrees anti-clockwise.

14w25a

Model no longer exists

1.9

15w31a

The missing model is no longer rotated or downscaled.

1.13

17w43a

The missing texture has changed.

Issues
Invalid data value cacti are an issue, and due to their removal, can be considered already fixed.

References

 "The Infamous Glitched Cactus | Unobtained S2 E26"  – PuffingFish on YouTube, November 13, 2020

 "To Infinity and Beyond!- ProtoTech SMP #13 | Ray's Works"  – Rays Works on YouTube, December 16, 2016

 MC-98430 – Endermen forces cacti to have a missing texture – resolved as "Fixed".

External links
Invalid Data Value Cactus at the Minecraft Discontinued Features wiki
Navigation