This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

Invalid data value Hay Bale

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

No

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Invalid data value Hay Bale",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Missing Model JE3.png"
    ]
}

Invalid data value hay bales are item forms of the hay bale with damage values outside of the usual range which hay bales can usually be obtained in.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Transmutation
1.2 Stacking

2 History
3 Issues
4 Navigation

Obtaining
Without the use of commands, invalid data value hay bales are unobtainable in the last versions in which they existed without inheriting them from a prior version in which they were obtainable.

Transmutation
Block transmutation with arrows can be used to obtain hay bales with metadata 1 to 3. These blocks can be mined in 14w21b or earlier to obtain the item corresponding to these blocks. Metadata values 4 to 15 correspond to rotated versions of metadata 0 to 3 and as such cannot be broken to obtain items with any higher metadata values.

Stacking
As hay bales as an item do not track their damage value for any purpose, invalid data value hay bales can be created by picking up dropped normal hay bales with an incomplete stack of invalid data value hay bales already in the inventory, as well as merging together existing item stacks. This can also result in invalid data value hay bales being converted to non-anomalous hay bales in the same way, and therefore care should be taken when transporting such items. As such, if collection of all 3 different types of hay bales is desired, they should be stored in a storage container such as a chest in different slots via manual placement - shift-clicking should be avoided.

History
Java Edition1.6.113w16a
Added hay bales. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how block and item metadata is handled.1.814w25a
 With the introduction of data-driven item models, any item with a data value outside of what is accepted by the game has no model to point to, resulting in use of the missing item model.14w30a
Invalid data value hay bales, alongside other invalid data value items, now appear the size of a full block when held in third person or by another player or mob.1.915w31a
 The missing model's inventory appearance has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value hay bales also changing.

The items also appear the size of a full block when held in first person and when dropped on the ground, and also appear larger than before in an item frame.1.1317w43a
 The missing texture has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value hay bales also changing.17w47a
Numeric IDs for blocks and items have been completely removed from the game. As a result, invalid data value hay bales have been "removed" as they now convert into normal hay bale items.
Inventory appearances (values marked in red are not known to be obtainable in survival mode)

From version

Damage value

Notes

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

1.6.1

13w16a

1.8

14w10a

Hay bales appear properly rotated, however the lighting is also rotated. 12-15 are now 2D.

14w25a

Model no longer exists

1.9

15w31a

The missing model is no longer rotated or downscaled.

1.13

17w43a

The missing texture has changed.

Issues
Invalid data value hay bales are an issue, and due to their removal, can be considered already fixed.

Navigation