This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

Invalid data value Block of Quartz

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

No

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Invalid data value Block of Quartz",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Missing Model JE3.png"
    ]
}

Invalid data value blocks of quartz are item forms of blocks of quartz with damage values outside of the usual range which blocks of quartz can usually be obtained in.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking rotated quartz pillars
1.2 Transmutation

2 Usage

2.1 Conversion to future versions

3 History
4 Issues
5 External links
6 Navigation

Obtaining
Without the use of commands, invalid data value blocks of quartz are unobtainable in the last versions in which they existed without inheriting them from a prior version in which they were obtainable.

Breaking rotated quartz pillars
Blocks of quartz with metadata 3 and 4 correspond to quartz pillars facing sideways directions. The ability to place blocks of quartz sideways was added in 13w03a, and was impossible in 13w02a, making these metadata values unused in said versions. If quartz pillars are placed sideways in 13w03a or a later version and the world is then loaded in 13w02a or 13w02b, the sideways quartz pillars (which will look like normal quartz blocks in these older versions) can be broken to obtain quartz block items with damage values 3 and 4.

Transmutation
Block transmutation with doors can be used to obtain blocks of quartz with metadata 5 to 7, and with arrows can be used to obtain blocks with metadata 5 to 15. These blocks can be mined in 14w21b or earlier to obtain the item corresponding to these blocks.

Usage
From 13w02a to 14w21b, invalid data value blocks of quartz would place the block that corresponds to the item form. Unlike invalid data value logs, this includes the two data values that correspond to rotated pillars, meaning that one of these two items will always place a sideways quartz pillar regardless of the player's facing direction or the targeted block face.
From 14w25a to 17w46a, invalid data value blocks of quartz will always place a normal block of quartz, including those that previously had the data of rotated pillars.

Conversion to future versions
In 1.13 (17w47a) onwards, distinguishing between block and item variants using metadata and damage was formally abolished. As a result of this, existing items would be converted over to the new ID system automatically. Invalid data value blocks of quartz all convert to regular blocks of quartz.

History
Java Edition1.513w02a
Blocks of quartz have been added. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how item metadata is handled.13w03a
Quartz pillars can now be placed sideways, allowing for two more block metadata variants to be accessed in normal gameplay, but rendering the item forms unobtainable via mining alone. However, they can be obtained by downgrading a world to 13w02a or 13w02b.

This also changes the appearance of the two item forms.1.814w10a
The item forms of all invalid data value quartz blocks have changed; the two corresponding to rotated pillars now map textures correctly but the lighting behaves rotated as well, and the remaining unused variants now are 2D in item form.14w25a
 With the introduction of data-driven item models, any item with a data value outside of what is accepted by the game has no model to point to, resulting in use of the missing item model.

Invalid data value quartz block items now place the normal block of quartz, rather than the block with a metadata value corresponding to the item's damage.

Placed blocks of quartz with metadata 5 to 15 now drop the normal block of quartz as an item, rather than the item corresponding to their metadata value.14w30a
Invalid data value blocks of quartz, alongside other invalid data value items, now appear the size of a full block when held in third person or by another player or mob.1.915w31a
 The missing model's inventory appearance has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value blocks of quartz also changing.

The items also appear the size of a full block when held in first person and when dropped on the ground, and also appear larger than before in an item frame.1.1317w43a
 The missing texture has changed, resulting in the appearance of invalid data value blocks of quartz also changing.17w47a
Numeric IDs for blocks and items have been completely removed from the game. As a result, invalid data value blocks of quartz have been "removed" as they now convert into normal block of quartz items.
Inventory appearances

From version

Damage value

Notes

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

1.5

13w02a

13w03a

1.8

14w10a

14w25a

Model no longer exists

1.9

15w31a

The missing model is no longer rotated or downscaled.

1.13

17w43a

The missing texture has changed.

Placed form
As invalid data blocks were effectively deleted in 1.8, considerably before invalid data value items, the block form is documented in the section below.

Java Edition1.513w02a
Blocks of quartz have been added. Invalid data variants exist as a consequence of how block metadata is handled.1.814w10a
Blocks of quartz in the world with metadata 5 to 15 now have no model . The particles of the block are still that of quartz.14w25a
Invalid data value blocks of quartz placed in the world now use missing texture particles, rather than the particles of the block of quartz.

Like with other blocks that use the missing model, invalid data value blocks of quartz now display the cracking animation correctly.14w26a
Invalid data value blocks of quartz placed in the world now act identically to air, and cannot be interacted with or placed with commands.[verify]?
Invalid data value blocks of quartz in placed form have now been completely removed - they no longer act as air, and will not show up if worlds in this version are downgraded to 14w25b or earlier.
Issues
Invalid data value blocks of quartz are an issue, and due to their removal, can be considered already fixed.

External links
Invalid Data Value Block of Quartz at the Minecraft Discontinued Features wiki
Navigation