For the inventory in Minecraft Earth, see MCE:Inventory.   For the inventory in Minecraft Dungeons, see MCD:Inventory.



This article needs cleanup to comply with the style guide. [discuss]
Please help improve this page. The talk page may contain suggestions.

A survival inventory pop-up screen in Java Edition.
The inventory is the pop-up menu that the player uses to manage items they carry. From this screen a player can equip armor, craft items on a 2×2 grid, and equip tools, blocks, and items. The player's skin is also displayed here.

Contents

1 Overview

1.1 Slots
1.2 Recipe book

2 Managing inventory
3 Creative inventory
4 External inventories

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition

5 Mob inventory
6 Achievements
7 History

7.1 Java Edition
7.2 Bedrock Edition
7.3 Legacy Console Edition
7.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Development images

10.1.1 Java Edition
10.1.2 Bedrock Edition

10.2 In other media

11 See also
12 Notes
13 References
14 Navigation

Overview
The inventory is opened and closed by pressing E ( on the Xbox 360 & Xbox One, / on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5,  on the Wii U & Nintendo Switch, and ••• on mobile devices). This key can be changed from the in-game options menu. The inventory can also be closed with Esc ( on the Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch, / on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, and × on mobile devices).
The inventory is saved upon exiting a world or server, so the player retains exactly the same items upon re-entering the world or server.

Slots
See also: Slot

The inventory consists of 4 armor slots, 27 storage slots, 9 hotbar slots, and an off-hand slot. Items in the hotbar slots can be selected using the keyboard keys (1–9) or by moving the  Scroll Wheel. Pressing the F‌[JE  only] key moves the selected item to and from the hotbar slot and the off-hand slot.
Most items stack up to 64, while some items stack to 16, like many projectiles, or do not stack at all, like items with durability. All items can stack up to 99‌[JE  only] or 127‌[BE  only] using components‌[JE  only] or commands.

Max stack size

 1  16 1 6464

Items

0

Large chests

0

Boxes (shulker)

0

Stacks

0

Items

0

There is also a 2×2 crafting grid, which allows any recipe that fits to be crafted but does not offer item storage. This is not available in Creative or Spectator mode in Java Edition.
Armor is considered equipped only when it is in an armor slot; when in any of the regular inventory slots, it is not considered "worn" and does not offer protection. Held armor can be equipped by using it, exchanging it with any armor already occupying that slot.
Items have tooltips if the cursor is hovered over them, displaying their name, enchantments, lore, and some item-specific information such as the version of a written book. Pressing F3 + H‌[JE  only] causes items to display additional information, such as their ID, data values, and some item specific information.
Pressing use on a block with an inventory, such as a chest, crafting table, or a furnace opens its GUI and allow items to be transferred between the 27 main slots, the 9 hotbar slots, and the block's GUI.
The only available slots for setting attributes are "mainhand", "offhand", "head", "chest", "legs", and "feet".

Recipe book
Main article: Recipe book
The recipe book has a catalog of all the recipes in the game and serves as a crafting guide. It shows every crafting recipe that the player has had materials for.
Crafting recipes are organized into different categories in the recipe book through the different tabs. In Java Edition, the categories are:

 All recipes
 Tools, weapons, and armor
 Building materials
 Food and miscellaneous items
 Redstone components
In Bedrock Edition, the categories are:

All recipes
Construction
Equipment
Items
Nature
Managing inventory
Stacks can be grabbed as a whole by pressing left-click on the stack and can be split in two by pressing right-click. If the stack is an odd quantity, then it leaves the smaller half behind (for example, a stack of 7 grabs 4 items and leaves 3 in the slot). Conversely, holding a stack of items in the player's cursor and left-clicking in an inventory slot places the full stack into the slot and right-clicking places items one at a time. If there is already a stack in that slot, it gets swapped with the grabbed stack. Double-clicking an item grabs up to a full stack from all the items within the inventory.
Holding ⇧ Shift and clicking on a stack sends the stack from the player's hotbar to the player's 27 inventory slots or vice versa, in order from left to right, then top to bottom. Doing so while an external inventory (chest boat, dispenser, etc.) is open sends the item stack from the player's inventory into the external inventory (from left to right, top to bottom) or vice versa (from bottom to top, right to left, starting with hotbar slot 9). Holding ⇧ Shift and double-clicking a stack while having an external inventory open and holding another stack moves all items that are identical to the clicked stack between the player's inventory and the external one (in the same order as regular shift-clicking). Doing so with only the internal inventory open instead collects all items of that type in the top-left most available inventory slot (not hotbar, so doing this with 0 free inventory slots leaves the items where they are).  Left Mouse Button,  Right Mouse Button and Shift in all of these controls are independent of the keybinds menu and cannot be changed.
Hovering over an inventory slot and pressing (by default) 1–9 switches the item in that inventory slot with the item in that slot of the hotbar, or moves the item from one to the other if either slot is empty. In Java Edition, pressing F behaves similarly, but with the off-hand slot.
Dragging a stack of items with the cursor over an inventory using  Left Mouse Button divides the stack equally over the dragged-over slots (with the remainder staying on the cursor), whereas dragging the stack around using  Right Mouse Button places one item of that stack in each dragged-over slot. Regardless of whether  Left Mouse Button or  Right Mouse Button is used, this occurs only with slots that are empty or contain identical items. If this amount of items does not fit onto the stack anymore, the rest stays on the cursor.
In Creative mode, (by default) middle-clicking a slot in an inventory grabs a full stack of the item while leaving the item in the slot. Dragging items with the cursor while holding the  Middle Mouse Button places a full stack of the item in each dragged-over slot.‌[Java Edition  only] This dragging action does not work if the "pick block" key is rebound.
Pressing (by default) C+1–9 (hold down C while pressing 1-9) in Creative mode saves the current toolbar in the Saved hotbars tab. It can be loaded (by default) with X+1-9.
Pressing drop while the cursor is hovering over a slot in the player's inventory or a container's inventory drops one item. Holding ⎈ Control and pressing drop while hovering over a slot in the player's inventory or container's inventory that has one or more items drops the entire stack of items. Without an inventory open, the same can be applied for the selected item(s) from the hotbar. The Ctrl key is not rebindable for these actions. Items can also be dropped into the world by clicking outside the inventory window while holding an item with the cursor.

Creative inventory
Main article: Creative inventory
In Creative mode, the inventory contains a block selection menu containing all blocks and items found in survival, plus a few additional items not obtainable in Survival. The blocks and items are organized into various tabs that differ slightly between Java and Bedrock.

External inventories
 "Container" redirects here.  For the item component in Java Edition, see Data component format § container.
Many blocks and some non-player entities have their own inventory-like menus that pop up to allow manipulation of items.
Note: Despite the fact that ender chest, crafting table, beacon, anvil, enchanting table, and villager inventories are actually internal behind the scenes, they are listed here as external because they require clicking on something external.

Java Edition



			Inventory



			Survival Inventory tab in Creative inventory.



			Search Items tab in Creative inventory.



			BarrelChestEnder ChestMinecart with ChestShulker BoxDyed Shulker BoxTrapped ChestBoat with ChestCopper Chest



			 Large Chest Large Trapped Chest Large Copper Chest



			Crafting Table



			FurnaceBlast FurnaceSmoker



			DispenserDropper



			Enchanting Table



			Brewing Stand



			Villager (master level)



			Wandering Trader



			Beacon



			Anvil



			HopperMinecart with Hopper



			Horse



			Skeleton Horse‌[JE  only]



			Zombie Horse



			Donkey (wearing chest)Mule (wearing chest)



			Llama (wearing chest, strength 5)



			Trader Llama



			CamelCamel Husk



			NautilusZombie Nautilus



			Grindstone



			Cartography Table



			Loom



			Stonecutter



			Smithing Table



			Crafter


Bedrock Edition



			Inventory



			Survival inventory tab in Creative inventory.



			Search items tab in Creative inventory.



			BarrelChestEnder ChestMinecart with ChestShulker BoxDyed Shulker BoxTrapped ChestBoat with ChestCopper Chest



			 Large Chest Large Trapped Chest Large Copper Chest



			Crafting Table



			FurnaceBlast FurnaceSmoker



			DispenserDropper



			Enchanting Table



			Brewing Stand



			Villager (master level)



			Wandering Trader



			Beacon



			Anvil



			HopperMinecart with Hopper



			Horse



			Donkey (wearing chest)Mule (wearing chest)



			Llama (wearing chest, strength 5)



			CamelCamel Husk



			NautilusZombie Nautilus



			Grindstone



			Cartography Table



			Loom



			Stonecutter



			Smithing Table



			Crafter


Minecraft Education exclusives



			Compound Creator



			Element Constructor



			Lab Table



			Material Reducer


Mob inventory
Certain mobs have inventory slots, used for various purposes.

Villagers have 8 slots, not accessible to the player, which they use to collect various farming-related seeds and foods.
Piglins have 8 slots, not accessible to the player, which they use to collect various items.
Pillagers have 5 slots, not accessible to the player, which goes unused, as pillagers don't change their inventory automatically or drop items from it upon death.[more information needed]
Agents‌[Minecraft Education  only] have 27 slots that are accessible to the player by a GUI, and can be accessed by the agent according to its programming.
Donkeys and mules, when equipped with a chest, have 15 inventory slots accessible to the player.
Llamas and trader llamas, when equipped with a chest, have 3, 6, 9, 12 or 15 inventory slots, corresponding to their Strength stat.
Allays have 1 inventory slot, not accessible to the player, which they use to collect items that match a player given held item.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherTaking InventoryOpen your inventory.—10Bronze
History
 For Creative inventory changes, see Creative inventory § History and Creative inventory/history.

Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.0.20a
Added Creative inventory. It can be accessed by pressing B.August 4, 2009
Breaking blocks were shown by Notch to allow the player to pick them up and place them, thus adding and removing them from the hotbar.August 25, 2009
Showed the currently selected block in the hotbar now appears in view.August 28, 2009
Showed that when no item is selected in the hotbar, the player's arm now shows.0.24_SURVIVAL_TEST
Implemented those above features.October 23, 2009
Showed the mockup of a supposed Survival inventory. It was made over the screenshot in a graphics editor.October 23, 2009
Notch mentioned what the actual slots in mockup were copied from his never finished game Legend of the Chambered and would be changed to fit Minecraft.

He also mentioned: "I’m not entirely sure yet how this would fit in with crafting. I’d rather not have crafting take place in the inventory view, as then you’d spend too much time in there. It should just be for checking stats, checking what your character looks like, and modifying your kit."Java Edition Indev0.3120091231-1856
Added Survival inventory. It can be accessed by pressing I.

Removed Creative inventory until Beta 1.8.20091231-2147
All items currently in-game (four tiers of armor, apple, iron sword, shovel, quiver) and also 99 torches, TNT, and bookshelves can be found in the hotbar and inventory.

Rana is shown in the inventory screen as a placeholder model.20100113-2015
Rana is no longer the player model in the inventory.20100128-2200
Items now show as 3D voxel sprites.20100129-1447
Opening the inventory now shows a crafting menu.

The crafting menu can now be opened by pressing a hotkey.

The player can now walk around while having the inventory open.

Right-clicking while holding a stack of item now places a single item.20100130
Crafting table has been added, and the crafting grid in the inventory has been replaced with a 2×2 one.

The player can now place items in the 2×2 crafting grid and they stay there when the inventory was closed (internally slots number 80 to 83).20100205-1558
The player model is now shown in the inventory GUI.

Right-clicking a stack of item in the inventory now picks up half of the stack.Java Edition Infdev20100227-1414
The player now starts out with a stack of 999 glass and 990 oak planks.20100313
The player now starts with more items (every item is in a stack of 999).20100320
The player now starts with a stack of 64 of every item.20100327
The player no longer starts with certain items.Java Edition Alphav1.0.15
The player can no longer walk while the inventory is open.

Items placed in the crafting grid now stays there instead of dropping to the ground, allowing to store items in it.v1.1.0
The inventory is now saved on multiplayer servers.Java Edition Beta1.0
Items now have tooltips displaying their name, if the cursor is hovered over items in the inventory.

Multiplayer now uses a proper server-side inventory, fixing a number of bugs.

Items placed in the crafting grid are now dropped simultaneously when the inventory is closed.

Removed icons from the empty armor slots, likely as a result of the server-side inventory rewrite.1.4
The default key for opening the inventory is now E instead of I because Notch found it to be much more efficient.1.5
⇧ Shift + clicking on an item or a stack while a chest is opened moves it between the chest and the inventory.1.6
⇧ Shift + clicking on an item or a stack immediately moves it between the inventory and the hotbar.

⇧ Shift + clicking while crafting makes the maximum amount possible of that item and moves it straight to the inventory.1.6.5
⇧ Shift + clicking the crafting output performs a single crafting action, instead of the maximum possible amount.1.8PAX Prime
64464
In this version only the player spawns with various tools and items when creating a world in Survival mode.Pre-release
The Creative inventory has been readded after Indev.Pre-release 2 ;)
⇧ Shift + clicking now crafts the maximum amount possible again, reverting to the Beta 1.6 behavior.Java Edition1.0.0RC2
The lighting of blocks in inventory has been adjusted.1.2.4release
Re-added icons for the empty armor slots.

Text color lightened from  #404040 to  #565656.1.3.112w15a
⇧ Shift + clicking an armor item in the inventory automatically moves it to the corresponding armor slot.12w21b
The inventory button no longer closes the inventory and instead opens search tab, so the player now must press Esc instead.12w22a
The orientation of tools, weapons and items have been changed from being oriented toward the left to being oriented toward the right.1.4.212w32a
Added the game rule keepInventory, allowing for the retention of player inventory upon death when set to true.12w40a
Improves inventory management.
Pick block now works on blocks represented as items in the inventory (e.g. repeater, redstone dust, tripwire, etc).
Pressing keys 1-9 while hovering over an item transfers it into the corresponding hotbar slot.
if there is already an item in the assigned hotbar slot, the hotbar item and the selected item swap position.
pick block on an item clones and picks up a stack of that item.1.4.612w50a
Dropping items while holding ⎈ Control now drops the whole stack.1.513w01a
Improved inventory management. Players can now:
Double click items to fill the stack up as much as possible.
Drag item stacks around to divide them up over the dragged-over slots.
Drag item stacks around with  Right Mouse Button to place one of that stack in each dragged-over slot, if that slot is not occupied already.
⇧ Shift + double click items in a crafting area to place all items in the inventory.
⇧ Shift + double click an item stack to move all other item stacks of that kind to that part of the inventory.
Press Q while the mouse is over an item in the inventory or a container to drop it.
Equip held armor by pressing use.1.814w25a
Text color darkened to  #404040, the same color as before 1.2.4.1.915w31a
The Survival inventory has been rearranged to accommodate the new off-hand slot.

The orientation of many items in the inventory have been unified.1.1116w32a
The message "Unable to open. Loot not generated yet." now appears on top of the hotbar.

The message "Press ⇧ Left Shift to dismount" now appears on the top of the hotbar when the player is riding a mob.1.1217w13a
Added recipe book button to the Survival inventory.17w14a
Changed the icon on the trigger button from a standard book to a knowledge book.1.16pre3
Swap item in hand now works while hovering over an item in inventory.20w22a
The "Crafting" in the player's inventory has been moved 2 pixels up and 1 pixel to the right in the crafting table GUI to match the edge of the crafting grid.1.1821w39a
Active effects now appear on the opposite side of the inventory.1.20.524w09a
⎈ Control+pick blocking a renamed block (such as a chest) in Creative mode now gives a renamed item.

Stack size is now limited to the maximum stack size of the item.24w12a
Added max_stack_size component.1.21.224w38a
Throwing items out of the inventory very quickly in creative mode is now throttled.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.1.0
Unlimited blocks can now be placed from the player's inventory.v0.2.0
The previous inventory is now used in Creative mode.

Added the Survival inventory. The player can still see the blocks as though in Creative mode, but cannot use them unless they have gathered the respective material.

As crafting has not yet been implemented, the player now spawns with infinite quantities of normally craftable items.v0.3.0
The Survival mode inventory now includes a 2×2 crafting grid.v0.6.0
Armor tab has been added into the Survival inventory.v0.9.0build 1
The Survival inventory has been redesigned to match it to the Creative inventory.

Crafting grids now show craftable recipes, with the 2×2 or 3×3 grid showing the recipe.v0.11.0build 1
The inventory texture in the Survival inventory has been changed from a brick to a chest.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
Added Profile UI option to change between Inventory UI "Pocket" and "Classic (like in Windows 10 Edition)".1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
Off-hand slot added.

Added the game rule keepInventory, allowing for the retention of player inventory upon death when set to true.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Changed the general look and layout of the inventory, in regards of the recipe book.1.21.120Preview 1.21.120.23
When using keyboard controls, it is now possible to move items from/to the hotbar slots using the corresponding hotkeys (by default, 1 to 9.)
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added Inventory for Survival mode with crafting menu.TU5
Added the creative inventory.
Added quick equip for armor to the inventory interface.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added Inventory for Survival mode. A crafting menu is also available in Survival mode.



			Mockup of a supposed Survival inventory. It was made over the screenshot in a graphics editor.


Issues
Issues relating to "Inventory" or "GUI" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
When sleeping or riding a pig, horse, boat, or minecart and the inventory screen is accessed, the avatar is shown in the respective position. However, only the player is displayed.[verify]
The avatar always looks at the pointer while in the inventory.
Gallery
Development images
Java Edition



			Inventory in Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100104-2258



			Inventory in Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100110


Bedrock Edition



			First image of the offhand slot



			An early look of the old inventory screen.



			An early look of the new inventory and recipe book screen.


In other media



			Pixel art of Makena in the inventory.


See also
Crafting
Smelting
Item repair
Items
Item durability
Blocks
Entity
Recipe book
Notes

 These blocks also exist in Bedrock Edition, but only in worlds with "Minecraft Education features" enabled.

References

 MC-577

 https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://notch.tumblr.com/post/220248282, October 22, 2009, Tumblr

 "Crafting and Mining in Minecraft"  – Nizzotch on YouTube, January 29, 2010 (Reupload)

 "(I changed the default from "I" to "E", which is five times better)"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), March 23, 2011

 MC-84610 – Off-hand hotkey doesn't work in inventories – resolved as "Fixed".

 "New inventory, dropper/dispenser and hopper OreUI screens."  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), September  4, 2025

 "It looks like this with all the extra screens, but keep in mind it likely is broken because it has not been updated for a long time. (Note: Don't upload to minecraft wiki, broken screens there will cause confusion)"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), June 23, 2026

Navigation