For other uses, see Earth.



This article documents an April Fools' Day joke. 
This feature was exclusively part of a joke version and is not currently planned for addition to regular Minecraft.

The Earth in the Moon's sky.
The Earth is a celestial body that appears in the joke update Java Edition 23w13a_or_b, released on April Fool's Day 2023. The Earth replaces the moon in the sky when in the Moon dimension. The Earth is designed to represent the Overworld being viewed from the Moon.

Contents

1 The Moon daylight cycle

1.1 Stars

2 Phases

2.1 Effects on mobs

3 Appearance
4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Screenshots

7 References
8 See also
9 Navigation

The Moon daylight cycle
Main article: Daylight cycle
The daylight cycle on the Moon (dimension) behaves the same as the Overworld's cycle, but appears differently. Moon is replaced by the Earth, so equivalent of night is when player can see the Earth. The sky also never changes colors. Night still begins after the sun has fully set in the west and the Earth has risen in the east. As time passes, the Earth moves westward across the sky. Overall, nighttime lasts about 7 minutes (in real-time). Surprisingly the players can still track the Earth's position in the sky using a clock.
During the whole cycle, light on the Moon stays at level 0.
Grass blocks and saplings do not grow in earthlight, nor do they decay. To grow them at night requires the use of light sources such as torches.
Nighttime cannot be skipped at all using a bed, as beds explode on the Moon.

Stars
Together with the Earth, the night sky still consists of stars, while it is pitch black during day. Stars appear as bright points, and the starfield rotates with the Earth, rising in the east and descending in the west, as the night progresses.

Phases
The Earth is always opposite of the Sun, like moon. Unlike moon, the Earth has no phases whatsoever.

Effects on mobs
See also: Difficulty § Moon phase and Difficulty § Regional difficulty

The only mob on the Moon is the moon cow, and the Earth has no phases. No effects of the Earth on moon cows were observed.

Appearance
The Earth can be seen in four different shapes:  square,  cube,  round,  teapot. The shape can be changed with vote minecraft:world_shape.

Issues
Issues relating to "Earth (April Fools' joke)" are not maintained on the bug tracker because it is an April Fools' joke, and is therefore not in the newest stable version or snapshot. Issues reported there are closed as "Invalid".

Trivia
The star pattern is based on a seed, but not the current world's seed. Like the Bedrock Edition pattern, the stars are always based on the same seed, regardless of the world seed.
The design of the Earth would end up being reused in promotions by Minecraft Education.
Gallery
Screenshots



			The Moon with the Earth seen in the background.


References

 "See if your students can name them all with this @Minecraft #brainteaser!"  – @PlayCraftLearn  on X (formerly Twitter), April 29, 2026

 "Educators dig deeper,teaching care for our world.Curiosity is planted. Futures are greener.Happy Earth Day! 🌍To all the teachers and parents helping children learn about our amazing planet. THANK YOU!#EarthDay #BuildABetterWorld"  – @PlayCraftLearn  on X (formerly Twitter), April 22, 2026

See also
The Moon
Moon
Navigation