This article is about Easter eggs in Minecraft.   For Easter eggs in Minecraft: Story Mode, see MCSM:Easter eggs.   For Easter eggs in A Minecraft Movie, see AMCM:Easter eggs.  For the annual April Fools’ pranks, see April Fools' Day jokes.



Spoiler warning! 
This article contains detailed information about Minecraft that may spoil your enjoyment of discovering the game's secrets for yourself. Read at your own risk!

An Easter egg is an intentional hidden message, inside joke, or feature in a work such as a computer program, web page, video game, television program, movie, book or any other form of media. Minecraft features several Easter eggs hidden in the game.

Contents

1 Seasonal events

1.1 Halloween
1.2 Christmas
1.3 New year

2 Blocks and items

2.1 Thing banner pattern
2.2 Mobs on chiseled blocks
2.3 Golems and poppies

3 Textures

3.1 Armor stand
3.2 Capes
3.3 Clouds

4 Languages
5 Names

5.1 Naming mobs

5.1.1 Upside-down mobs
5.1.2 Rainbow sheep
5.1.3 "Toast the Bunny"
5.1.4 "Johnny"

5.2 Players

5.2.1 deadmau5's ears

6 Splashes

6.1 Never displayed splash
6.2 Coronavirus

7 Tributes to Technoblade
8 References to other franchises
9 Others

9.1 Minceraft
9.2 "Someone is closing me!"
9.3 Enchanting symbols
9.4 Sounds

9.4.1 Cave sound 14
9.4.2 Cave sound 21
9.4.3 Crimson forest ambience
9.4.4 Music Disc 11

9.5 The killer bunny
9.6 Crash screens
9.7 .minecraft

9.7.1 Debug profile results

9.8 Item models
9.9 Command blocks

9.9.1 Searge
9.9.2 autoexec.bat

10 Removed Easter eggs

10.1 Command blocks

10.1.1 Searge says

10.2 Java Edition launcher
10.3 Legacy Console Edition tutorial world

10.3.1 Tower of Pimps
10.3.2 Stampylonghead reference

10.4 1K IN 24h
10.5 Notch's birthday
10.6 Player Notch's death
10.7 "Super Secret" settings
10.8 missingno splash
10.9 Cake
10.10 Guardian
10.11 Zombie pigman

11 References
12 Navigation

Seasonal events



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Halloween
 "Halloween" redirects here.  For other uses, see Halloween (disambiguation).
On October 31, zombies, zombie villagers, husks, drowned, skeletons, strays, bogged, parched, zombified piglins, and wither skeletons have a 22.5% chance to wear carved pumpkins and a 2.5% chance to wear jack o'lanterns on their heads. This feature was added in Java Edition 1.4.2 for Halloween 2012 onward, and to Legacy Console Edition sometime after.​[more information needed]
The only splash text shown on October 31 is "OOoooOOOoooo! Spooky!"



			A zombie with a carved pumpkin on its head.



			A spider jockey with a carved pumpkin.



			A wither skeleton with a jack o'lantern.



			A baby zombified piglin with a jack o'lantern.



			A zombie and a skeleton wearing a jack o'lantern and a pumpkin respectively.



			A wither skeleton wearing a jack o'lantern in the Nether.



			"OOoooOOOoooo! Spooky!" splash.


Christmas
Main articles: Chest § Christmas chest and Mentioned features § Joke features
From December 24–26, chests, large chests, trapped chests and minecarts with chest have their textures changed to Christmas chests that resemble wrapped Christmas presents. This was added in Java Edition 1.4.6 for Christmas 2012. A texture file called "skis.png" was also added in the same folder as the Christmas chests, but it was added by Dinnerbone as a red herring. This was re-added for Christmas 2013, along with a new "rain feature"—pigs riding chickens, not planned to be implemented. This also happened again in 2014 with a new splash reading, "Merry X-Mas!" and repeated in every Christmas since. The change doesn't apply to boats with chests.



			"Merry X-mas!" splash.



			skis.png



			Normal chests.



			Large chests.


New year
The only splash that can be seen on January 1 is "Happy new year!".


			"Happy new year!" splash.


Blocks and items
Thing banner pattern
A thing banner pattern can be crafted using an enchanted golden apple and paper. When put on a banner, it displays Mojang Studios' old logo in whatever color dye was used. It is labeled "Thing" in the inventory. The Swedish word "mojäng" means gadget or thing.

Mobs on chiseled blocks
Many chiseled blocks have mobs or references to mobs on them.

Chiseled cinnabar has a cave spider.
Chiseled nether bricks has a wither skeleton face.
Chiseled polished blackstone has a piglin's snout.
Chiseled red sandstone has a wither.
Chiseled resin bricks has a creaking face.
Chiseled sandstone has a creeper face.
Chiseled sulfur has a sulfur cube face.
Chiseled tuff has a wind-like pattern from the wind charge shot by a breeze.
Golems and poppies
Iron golems can spawn a poppy in their hands and offer it to villagers or copper golems. When a copper golem accepts the offer, the poppy sits right on top of the lightning rod on its head.

Textures
Some textures have hidden things in space unused by the game. Some of these are accessible by unzipping client.jar found in the versions folder.

Armor stand
In the texture for the armor stand, in an unused area in the bottom right, the name "Searge" can be seen in a black box. This is presumably put there as a signature by Searge, the developer that implemented armor stands. In the bottom left, the name "Jappa" can be seen. This is likely another signature, this time from the texture artist, Jappa, who was in charge of the Texture Update. Another name was by Chiwi, who updated the Smooth Stone base plate texture.



			Armor stand texture before the Texture Update



			Armor stand texture before 1.18



			Current armor stand texture


Capes
Main article: Cape
Some cape textures have a secret on the underside where it is not very visible.



			The Translator cape has a big pink T on its underside.



			The Chinese Translator cape has a small pixelated Chinese flag on its underside.



			cheapsh0t's cape has a small pixelated Japanese flag on its underside.



			The Prismarine cape has a dark prismarine block texture on its underside.



			The Scrolls Champion cape has a big yellow S on its underside.



			The Turtle cape has a turtle's belly on its underside.



			The Birthday cape has a big yellow star on its underside, similar to that of the Millionth Customer cape.



			The 15th Anniversary cape has the number 15 on its underside because it was released on Minecraft's 15th birthday.


Clouds
The cloud texture has a creeper face in it, which can be occasionally visible in-game in the sky.



			The clouds texture with a black background for visibility.


Languages



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

There are five joke languages available at the language menu: Pirate Speak, LOLCAT, Shakespearean English, Anglish (puristic English), and ɥsᴉlƃuƎ (uʍoᗡ ǝpᴉsd∩) (upside-down English).
Minecraft is also translated into tlhIngan Hol, the Klingon language from Star Trek; Quenya, one of the Elvish languages from Lord of the Rings; Lojban, a conlang created by the Logical Language Group; toki pona, a conlang created by Sonja Lang; and Esperanto, a conlang created by L.L. Zamenhof.
If a player types "excitedze" into the search bar in the recipe book, their language is automatically switched to Pirate Speak. "ExcitedZe" is the username of Maria Lemón, a former Mojang Studios staff member.

Names
Naming mobs
Several mobs can be renamed by using a name tag to create an effect. These names are all case sensitive.

Upside-down mobs
An example of 2 pigs and a creeper being named "Dinnerbone".Any mob (with the exception of the ender dragon, squid and glow squid) named "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" through name tags, commands, or any other method, is rendered upside-down. The mob's behavior does not change.
This also applies to players, allowing Dinnerbone and Grumm's avatars to be rendered upside-down. This can be toggled using the "Cape" button from the "Skin Customization" menu. In Bedrock Edition, if the player names themselves "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm", they are rendered upside-down. This works only if the player is not signed-in into Xbox Live.[verify]

Rainbow sheep
A sheep named "jeb_"
Naming a sheep "jeb_" using a name tag or a renamed spawn egg causes it to continually cycle through all colors a sheep can be dyed. When sheared using shears, however, the sheep drops wool of the original color of the sheep rather than the color that currently appears on the sheep. If a sheep is named jeb_, and then sheared, the leftover wool on its skin continues to cycle through all the colors.

"Toast the Bunny"
A rabbit named "Toast"
When Ryan Holtz was developing rabbits, user xyzen420 asked him to make a skin that would look like his girlfriend's lost rabbit, Toast. Now, naming a rabbit with a name tag or a rabbit spawn egg called "Toast" causes the rabbit's skin pattern to look like Toast as a memorial. This also works if the player attempts to name The Killer Bunny; although while the rabbit's appearance uses the Toast skin, it can still attack as it would without the given name. When the player is killed by the renamed Killer Bunny, the death message says "<playername> was slain by Toast". "Toast" is re-textured to have black spots on its fur.

"Johnny"
Main article: Vindicator § "Johnny"
If a vindicator is named "Johnny" or has its Johnny tag set to 1b, it attacks any nearby mobs except other illagers, agents‌[BE & edu  only], and ghasts. It will also try to attack creakings while also running away from them. This references the movie The Shining, where the character Jack Torrance utters the line "here's Johnny," itself a reference to The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.

Players
deadmau5's ears

With the addition of capes, Notch also added ears for deadmau5. The ears are additional geometry attached to the player's head, with the texture contained within deadmau5's skin file. deadmau5 cannot disable his ears; erasing the ear texture from the skin file would still render them with a solid black color. deadmau5's name tag is also programmed to render ten pixels higher to be above the ears. The ears are set to show up based on the username, rather than the UUID of the player, meaning that if deadmau5 were to change his name, he would not keep his ears.

Splashes
Never displayed splash
Within the "texts" folder, there is a text file named splashes.txt. The text file contains all the splashes that appear on the title screen. One of them is "This message will never appear on the splash screen, isn't that weird?" If the text file is modified to only contain this string of text, no splash is displayed. As the text implies, the splash is never displayed. However, in Legacy Console Edition, it does display, though it has never been confirmed if this is a bug or an intentional feature.

Coronavirus
Special splashes were displayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They include "Wash your hands!" and "Support elderly relatives and friends!"

Tributes to Technoblade
Main article: Technoblade
The crown on the pig.
Following the announcement on June 30, 2022 that popular Minecraft YouTuber Technoblade passed away from stage 4 metastatic sarcoma, a rare form of cancer, Mojang added his skin's crown to the pig on the Java Edition art in memory of him. A splash text "Technoblade never dies!" was also added in his honor in Java Edition 1.19.1 and Bedrock Edition 1.19.10. The launcher art was later changed to reflect The Wild Update, removing the pig and the crown from the launcher.
A Technoblade pig also appears in A Minecraft Movie. Henry asks, "Is he some kind of king?", to which Steve responds, "No, that’s a legend."

References to other franchises
Portal
In Bedrock Edition, the achievement for crafting a cake is called The Lie, likely in reference to the phrase "the cake is a lie" from the video game Portal.
The April Fools snapshot 24w14potato contains the splash "Oh hi! So, how are you holding up? BECAUSE I'M A POTATO!", a line said by GLaDOS in the video game Portal 2.
Half-Life
In Bedrock Edition, the achievement for traveling 500 meters by minecart is called "On A Rail", likely in reference to the chapter of the same name in the video game Half-Life.
Team Fortress 2
Java Edition Beta 1.4, released for April Fools' Day 2011, introduced the locked chest which when opened displayed the name "Steve Co. Supply Crate", a reference to the Mann Co. Supply Crates found in the video game Team Fortress 2.
The splash text "The creeper is a spy!" is a reference to the Spy class in Team Fortress 2, and the various voice lines that other characters say to alert others of his presence.
Counter-Strike
Three of the paintings in the game are of stages in Counter-Strike 1.6: de_aztec 1 & 2 and Target successfully bombed.
Super Mario
One of the paintings is a reference to the Donkey Kong arcade game.This painting references Donkey Kong.
The Shining
If a vindicator is named "Johnny", it behaves like a zoglin, attacking every mob except agents, ghasts, illagers and themselves. It cycles between attacking creakings and running away from them. This references the scene "Here's Johnny" from the movie The Shining.
Star Fox
The achievement for using a trident enchanted with Riptide is called "Do a Barrel Roll!" in reference to the popular phrase said by Peppy Hare in Star Fox 64 and its retellings, telling the player to execute an aerial maneuver called a barrel roll.
2001: A Space Odyssey
Before 1.13, using /help in a command block displays one of a few joke messages, one of which is "Oh my god, it's full of stats", a reference to a quote from the novel 2001: A Space Odyssey. In the witty comments of a crash report, there are two other quotes, "I'm sorry, Dave." and "Quite honestly, I wouldn't worry myself about that."
Age of Empires
If an evoker sees a blue sheep, it turns the sheep into a red sheep while uttering "wololo". This is a reference to the Priest unit from the Age of Empires real-time strategy game series, which would utter "wololo" while converting enemy units to their side, changing their color. The evoker specifically uses the sound sample from the 1999 title Age of Empires II.
Grim Fandango
The painting 'Mortal Coil' is partly a reference to the character Bruno Martinez from Grim Fandango.
Terraria
One of the games splash texts recommends the game Terraria. "Also try Terraria!"
Project Zomboid
One of the games splash texts recommends the game Project Zomboid. "Also try Project Zomboid!"
Pokémon
The translation key in Bedrock Edition for invalid structures is feature.missingno, likely a reference to the famous glitched Pokémon known as MissingNo. in the first generation of Pokémon games.
The term "missingno" is also used in Java Edition internally for the resource locations of the missing texture and missing model. It was also previously used for splash texts when none could be loaded, as well as items with invalid entries in CanDestroy/CanPlaceOn NBT tags.
Quake
The "Quake Pro" FOV option is likely a reference to the Quake series of first-person shooter games, specifically the fact that pro players often use an extremely high FOV to see as much around them as possible.
Doctor Who
The name of the Regeneration effect when the LOLCAT: Kingdom of Cats language option is selected is "Time Lordz Buffeh", a likely reference to the television series Doctor Who, particularly the fact that the race of Time Lords can regenerate into a new body.
World of Goo
One of the games splash texts recommends the game World of Goo. "Also try World Of Goo!"
Others
Minceraft



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Main article: Main menu § Minceraft
There is a 0.01% chance for the title screen to display "Minceraft" instead of "Minecraft". The beginning of crash logs can have the phrase "You should try our sister game, Minceraft!".



			Minceraft in the crash logs.



			Minceraft in-game.


"Someone is closing me!"
Main article: Crash
The "Someone is closing me!" easter egg.
After a crash, the second-to-last line of text on the game output launcher tab says "Someone is closing me!"

Enchanting symbols

The enchanting symbols shown on the enchantment selection contain random words using the standard galactic alphabet from Commander Keen games, but the words in enchanting tables are randomized and do not correlate with any enchantments. This language shows up in 10 Years of Minecraft as a puzzle.

Sounds
Cave sound 14
When ambient sound 14 is put into a spectrogram, a creeper face can be seen. Samuel Åberg said that he made this sound with a spectrogram program.



			The creeper face in the ambient sound 14 spectrogram


Cave sound 21
If ambient sound 21 is listened to closely or put in a spectrogram, it spells out Morse code: "-... . .... .. -. -.." , which translates to "behind". When Samuel Åberg was asked about this, he responded with "Creepy 👀".



			"BEHIND" being spelt in Morse code in the ambient sound 21 spectrogram


Crimson forest ambience
Many of the sounds were created using balloons.

Music Disc 11
If the .ogg file for "11" is turned into a spectrogram in an audio editor, the static at the end displays an image of Steve's face and the numbers 12418. The numbers are a visual signature, where "C" is hexadecimal for "12", and combined with "418" creates "C418".



			The static at the end of Disc 11 viewed in a spectrogram. Steve's face can be seen here as well as the numbers 12418.



			The numbers 12418


The killer bunny
The killer bunny is a variant of the rabbit that is hostile to all players. This is a reference to the Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog from Monty Python and the Holy Grail. It can be spawned only by using commands, and only in Java Edition.

Crash screens
Main article: Crash § Witty comments
When the game runs into a fatal error and crashes, the crash log includes a message such as "Who set us up the TNT?" or "Hi. I'm Minecraft, and I'm a crashaholic."

.minecraft
Debug profile results
Debug profile results (triggered via /debug) contain witty comments at the top, much like with crash reports.

I'd Rather Be Surfing
Shiny numbers!
Am I not running fast enough? :(
I'm working as hard as I can!
Will I ever be good enough for you? :(
Speedy. Zoooooom!
Hello world
40% better than a crash report.
Now with extra numbers
Now with less numbers
Now with the same numbers
You should add flames to things, it makes them go faster!
Do you feel the need for... optimization?
*cracks redstone whip*
Maybe if you treated it better then it'll have more motivation to work faster! Poor server.
Item models
Several items when worn on the head (using /item replace) have unique placements. The end rod and spyglass protrude from the head like a horn, the lightning rod sits at the side like a snorkel, fish look like an ear and mic piece, banners display similar to how raid captains wear them, fence gates are worn like glasses, bones are held in the mouth like a dog, leads go around the eye like a monocle, feathers stick up at the back of the head, and shelf mushrooms are held in front of the head like a beak.


			Steve wearing end rod



			Alex wearing end rod



			Steve wearing raw cod



			Alex wearing raw cod



			Steve wearing white banner



			Alex wearing white banner



			Steve wearing bone



			Alex wearing bone



			Steve wearing lead



			Alex wearing lead



			Steve wearing feather



			Alex wearing feather



			Steve wearing oak fence gate



			Alex wearing oak fence gate



			Steve wearing shelf mushroom



			Alex wearing shelf mushroom



			Steve wearing spyglass



			Alex wearing spyglass



			Steve wearing lightning rod



			Alex wearing lightning rod


Command blocks
Searge
Running "Searge" as the command in the command block without a preceding "/" sets the previous output to "#itzlipofutzli". This Easter egg is case insensitive.

autoexec.bat
In the language files, the key for the command block’s “Always Active” feature is advMode.mode.autoexec.bat, a tribute to DOS-based operating systems that made use of the file "AUTOEXEC.BAT" to run commands upon startup of the system.

Removed Easter eggs
Several Easter eggs have been removed from Minecraft.

Command blocks
Command blocks have various Easter eggs with messages being added to the previous output.

Searge says
If the command /help is run via a command block, it gave various messages prefixed with "Searge says: " as the previous output when activated. The following messages existed:

"Yolo"
"/achievement take achievement.understandCommands @p"
"Ask for help on twitter"
"/deop @p"
"Scoreboard deleted, commands blocked"
"Contact helpdesk for help"
"/testfornoob @p"
"/trigger warning"
"Oh my god, it's full of stats"
"/kill @p[name=!Searge]"
"Have you tried turning it off and on again?"
"Sorry, no help today".
This no longer works in 1.13 or above (MC-124295); instead the /help command now runs normally, but the previous output gives only the last line ("/xp -> experience") due to there being space for just one line.

Java Edition launcher
Some launcher Easter eggs. The shrugging emoticon has been clicked, causing it to turn white. A witch has also appeared after the player hovered over the play button.
Before the release of the Java Edition launcher version 2.1.497x, the launcher contained multiple Easter eggs. If the player hovered their cursor over the "Play" button for a few seconds, a random mob would appear in the bottom right corner of the launcher. In the top left corner of the launcher, the player could see a translucent creeper face. There was about a 1⁄11 chance of the creeper face being replaced with a shrugging emoticon, ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. When the player clicked on either of these, they turned solid white. Clicking them again would return them to their translucent state. In addition, if the player pressed ctrl+b, the experience orb pickup sound plays. These no longer work since the launcher has since been updated.

Legacy Console Edition tutorial world
Main article: Legacy Console Edition tutorial
Tower of Pimps

Tower of Pimps

Biomes

Desert

Generates inexisting chunks  

No

Consists of

Block of Gold
Obsidian

{
    "title": "Tower of Pimps",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Desert",
            "label": "(link to Biome article, displayed as Biomes)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Generates in<br>existing chunks  "
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BlockSprite block-of-gold.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Block of Gold|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Block of Gold article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Block of Gold</span>)</span>\n* <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BlockSprite obsidian.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Obsidian|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Obsidian article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Obsidian</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Consists of"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Tower of Pimps.png"
    ]
}

In the old Legacy Console Edition TU12-TU13 Tutorial World, on the top floor of the sandstone pyramid, there are four blocks of gold on top of a block of obsidian. This is the "Tower of Pimps". It was created by Gavin Free of Achievement Hunter in their video "Let's Play Minecraft Part 2 - On a Rail!" and has become a symbol of the group's Let's Play Minecraft series, mainly as a trophy of their competitions in their Achievement City world within Xbox 360 Edition and Java Edition.

Stampylonghead reference
In the Legacy Console Edition TU19/CU7/1.12 Tutorial World, there was an island in the northeast side of the world and it had a remake of several buildings from Minecraft YouTuber Stampylonghead, including his house along with his boat, the S.S. Stumpy, not to be confused with the S.S. Stampy.
Additionally, the boat was seen in the trailer for Legacy Console Edition TU19/CU7.
A world based on the map, containing all of his creations, would later be released by 4J Studios on the Marketplace in 2024 as "Stampy's Lovely World".

1K IN 24h
Main article: Java Edition Alpha v1.0.13_01
1K IN 24h logo.
In July 29, 2010, after Minecraft got over 1000 sales in 24 hours, Notch decided to celebrate by reuploading Alpha v1.0.13_01 with the Minecraft logo being replaced by "1K IN 24h".
It was since been removed in Alpha v1.0.14 by reverting it to the previous version.

Notch's birthday
Notch's birthday splash text in early alpha.
Notch's birthday splash text in 1.7.9.
On June 1, Notch's birthday, the only splash displayed is "Happy Birthday, Notch!"
This splash was removed in Java Edition 1.8.5, since Notch no longer works for Mojang.

Player Notch's death



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

When the account Notch died in-game, he dropped an additional apple along with his inventory. However, this feature never worked in multiplayer due to a bug. From Infdev 20100327 until snapshot 11w48a, this was the only way to legitimately obtain apples. This feature no longer occurs.

"Super Secret" settings
In snapshot 13w36a for Java Edition 1.7.2, Dinnerbone added a Super Secret Settings button, which could be viewed in the options screen. Clicking it would blare a random game sound with a lower pitch and change the shader of the screen. These effects would not necessarily work on computers without a graphics card that supported OpenGL 2.1. This was removed in snapshot 15w31a for 1.9.

missingno splash
In older versions, if one were to delete the file splashes.txt without also deleting the META-INF folder, the splash text on the title screen would appear as "missingno". This is a reference to the infamous glitched Pokémon MissingNo. found in the first generation of Pokémon games. This was later changed to a zero-width no-break space, which was originally displayed in Minecraft's Unicode font as a box with the letters "ZWNBSP" within it.
The splash was added in Java Edition Alpha v1.0.12 and it's the only vanilla version with this splash by default since all splashes were temporarily removed.



			Splash in Alpha v1.0.12.



			The missingno splash in 1.13.2.



			The missingno splash in 19w12b.



			The missingno splash since 1.14 (19w13a).


Cake

In 1.14.2-pre2 and for the occasion of the 10 years of Minecraft's release on May 17, 2019, the cake had a big "10" placed like candles, and the only splash text that appeared was "Turning 10 years old!" This was reverted to the way they were before on May 20, 2019, and is unable to be seen again in-game even when going back to 1.14.2-pre2 and changing the time of the device to May 17–20 of 2019.

Models

Full cake

1 slice eaten

2 slices eaten

3 slices eaten

Guardian
Before the Texture Update, in the guardian and elder guardian textures, there was an unused area saying "jeb," marking Jens Bergensten as the designer of the texture.



			Elder guardian.



			Normal guardian.


Zombie pigman
Before the Texture Update, in an unused area for the zombie pigman texture, the words "THX XAPHOBIA" could be seen. This was written by Notch to give credit and thanks to the original creator of the texture, XaPhobia.



			Zombie pigman texture


References

 "Enjoy your fancy gift-chests, minecrafters! They'll look great under a giant tree. (And those skis? They're attached to a rouge fish.)"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), December 24, 2012"@Le_flobi I wouldn't consider them christian, just fun. If you still don't like them; two days."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), December 24, 2012"@Crimson5M Bingo."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), December 24, 2012"@MCTheWatershed Certainly not rogue."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), December 24, 2012

 MC-249378

 "@MiaLem_n Whats you Ingame-name?"  – @DxnnySch  on X (formerly Twitter), April 7, 2017"ExcitedZe"  – @MiaLem_n (Maria Lemón) on X (formerly Twitter), April 7, 2017"Thx ☺"  – @DxnnySch  on X (formerly Twitter), April 7, 2017

 "Mindcrack UHC - S13 E01 - Straight to Business!"  – Nathan “Dinnerbone” Adams on YouTube

 (On behalf of my girlfriend, whose post got removed due to the 10 comment karma requirement)This is my bunny,Toast. He went missing this week and my family is really sad. He is still a young and shy bunny. We miss him a lot and we're very worried about him. Toast brought us lots of joy and he is more than just a pet, he is a part of our family. I cannot tell you how much I would appreciate it if you could put Toast into the game so that I can remember him each time I play. Thank you. – Reddit, u/xyzen420, June 6, 2014

 "@Zetterstrand the painting called "Target successfully bombed" Is taken in Counter-Strike 1.6. But I still wonder which type of de_dust the picture was taken from?"  – @MadeOfPolygons  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023"They were all painted from scenes in CS 1.3. "Target successfully bombed" depicts de_dust2."  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), April 27, 2024"de_dust2Target Successfully Bombed. 41x49cm. Oil on MDF (2002)"  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023"Is this the path to long or is it B site? I can't tell"  – @dithkula  on X (formerly Twitter), March 8, 2024"B site"  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), March 8, 2024

 "@Zetterstrand do you happen to have the donkey Kong game painting from Minecraft?"  – @leviidergames  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023, alt text - "Said Donkey Kong painting""sureKong. Oil on panel (2003)"  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023"Well I asked this early but I think my Tweet didn't reach you, what was your inspiration tô put DK in the paintings? You like the game or was just you know, with no special reason?"  – @Rickz141  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023"I liked the game, but made a painting of it mainly because of the aesthetics of it in contrast to...to...a weird swirl??😬"  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2023

 "Meet the Vindicator"     by Marsh Davies  – Minecraft.net, June 20, 2017.

 "I'm still in LA! Noticed the wololo Easter egg has been found! It's exactly the same sound sample as used in AoE2, hehe :D"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2016"Ensemble Studios was a Microsoft studio, so it's cleared"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2016

 "I wanted to get a print of the skeleton in the paper boat, or conch shell? Never knew what he was in but I couldn't find it on your website. Is there a story behind that one?"  – @_MightyPotato  on X (formerly Twitter), March 15, 2023"The painting is called "Mortal coil"I'll see if I can add it to my print shop.The inspiration was partly Bruno Martinez from Grim Fandango"  – @Zetterstrand  on X (formerly Twitter), March 15, 2023

 "HOW MINECRAFT SOUNDS ARE MADE"  – Minecraft on YouTube, August 3, 2024

 "Creepy 👀"  – @slamp0000  on X (formerly Twitter), March  2, 2025

 "Dev Diaries #2: Nether Sound"  – Minecraft on YouTube, July 24, 2020

 "AH Guide: Minecraft - TOWER OF PIMPS!!! | Rooster Teeth"  – Achievement Hunter on YouTube, August 23, 2013

 "Minecraft Xbox - Sinking Feeling [124]"  – stampylonghead on YouTube, September 28, 2013

 "Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Title Update 19 Trailer"  – 4JStudios on YouTube, December 18, 2014

 "Stampy’s Lovely World"     by 4J Studios  – Minecraft.net.

 You know how Notch's account on Minecraft drops an apple if it dies? Do any of the other people that work at Mojang's accounts do the same?Just checked the code, only Notch drops an apple :) – Reddit, u/_Grum, April 10, 2014

 "Mindcrack Minecraft SMP - Notch's Block - Episode 43 - Season 4"  – docm77 on YouTube, October 20, 2013

 "Mindcrack Minecraft SMP - Notch's Block - Episode 43 - Season 4"  – docm77 on YouTube, October 20, 2013

 https://resources.download.minecraft.net/8b/8b4ff4e0937149a16bc246116bb92d1f3c638e73

 "@Micleee thank you!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 26, 2010"i happened to read the mc wiki and ended up on capes page. and poor micleee.his cape got removed according to wiki when other users asked Notch for personal capes.since then there has been 8 more personal capes. and 6 unique capes that more than 1 person has.micleee lost theirs:("  – @Kiina_RS  on X (formerly Twitter), August 21, 2023

 "Zombie Pigmen"     by PokeAddicted  – DeviantArt, October 24, 2010.

Navigation