For the similar settings in the game menu, see Settings § World.   For the edit world screen in Java Edition, see Select World § Edit World.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 

The Edit world screen for local worlds
The Edit world screen is a menu screen to manage a world's files and its settings. Unlike in Java Edition's world options, almost all world settings, game rules, add-ons, and experiments can be changed here.
Worlds that are stored locally on the device can be edited, as well as worlds in an owned Realms server. The edit world screen for local worlds uses Ore UI, while the Edit project screen for the Editor uses the classic UI, making it look vastly different while offering almost the same options.

Contents

1 Edit world

1.1 General
1.2 Advanced
1.3 Multiplayer

1.3.1 Settings

1.4 Cheats

1.4.1 Cheat settings

1.5 Resource packs

1.5.1 Active
1.5.2 Available

1.6 Behavior packs

1.6.1 Active
1.6.2 Available

1.7 Experiments

1.7.1 Gameplay
1.7.2 Add-on creators

2 Edit project

2.1 Game
2.2 Multiplayer
2.3 Add-Ons

3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Minecraft Education

4 Issues
5 Gallery

5.1 Bedrock Edition

5.1.1 Realms
5.1.2 Historical screenshots

5.2 Minecraft Education

5.2.1 Historical screenshots

6 See also
7 Notes
8 References
9 Navigation

Edit world
The Edit world screen for worlds on Realms
The Edit world screen for local worlds can be opened from the "Worlds" tab in the Play screen by selecting the "Edit" button on a world, or by pressing /// for controllers on a selected world. The Edit world screen for Realms can be opened by the Realm owner or members with an administrator role by selecting "Edit world" on an active world in the Realms Hub.
The menu shows the world thumbnail with some buttons and a tab list on the left, and the world options for each selected tab on the right.

Option

Description

Returns to the previously opened menu screen, usually the "Worlds" tab in the Play screen for local worlds, and the Realms Hub for Realms. If any options have been changed, the game offers to save the changes, or discard them.

Opens a menu with the option to change the world thumbnail to an in-game screenshot, or reset it to the default screenshot which is taken upon world saving. Not available for worlds in Realms.

Saves changes made to the world and opens the loading world screen to join the world or Realm.

Opens a menu with the options to upload the world to an owned Realm, or add a new Realms subscription. Selecting a Realms server will show a selection screen with three available world slots where the world can be stored. The current world will be replaced with this world.
Not available in the Realms edit screen.

When the world has been created from a Marketplace template, some options may be locked by the creator. The options can be unlocked by selecting the message at the top, but this may result in different gameplay than the creator intended for the template.
Some options and custom add-ons may permanently disable achievements for the world, which are shown with a message below the thumbnail. Enabling add-ons or experiments shows a warning message as well.

 General

World name My World
The name of the world, shown in all world lists, in the in-game player list, and for multiplayer connections. Allows a string from 1-30 characters.

Game mode BE: Survival edu: Creative
Changes the default game mode, which is the game mode all players get when joining the world. Selecting Creative mode disables achievements.
Survival
Explore a mysterious world where you build, collect, craft, and fight monsters.

Creative
Create, build, and explore without limits. You can fly, have endless materials, and can't be hurt by monsters.

Adventure
You get to set your own rules through in-game commands on how you and other can interact with the game

Difficulty BE: Normal edu: Peaceful
Changes the game's difficulty setting, which has a significant effect on Survival gameplay.
Peaceful
No hostile mobs and only some neutral mobs spawn. Hunger bar doesn't deplete and health replenishes over time.

Easy
Hostile mobs spawn but deal less damage. Hunger bar depletes and drains health down to 5 hearts.

Normal
Hostile mobs spawn and deal standard damage. Hunger bar depletes and drains health down to half a heart.

Hard
Hostile mobs spawn and deal more damage. Hunger bar depletes and can drain all health.

Hardcore
You can't respawn if you die. Good luck! You'll need it.

Shows whether Hardcore mode is enabled, which cannot be changed.

World size Update to Infinite
Turn your old 256x256 block world into an Infinite world. This will automatically make a backup of your old world.

Only available for worlds created with the Old world type before 1.18.0. This removes the invisible bedrock boundary around the world and allows infinite chunk generation, as well as gameplay features from the latest version.

File management
The first three options are not available on Realms. The last three options are exclusive to Realms.
Duplicate world
Copies the world files and stores the new world locally with - Copy added to the name.
Delete world
Are you sure? If you delete this world it will be gone forever..

Permanently deletes the world, after confirmed a second time.
Export world
Export a world and its settings such as game modes, or difficulty
Erasing the data is not available on a world with hardcore mode enabled.

Opens a menu to export the world files. Proceeding will export a copy of the world as .mcworld, opening the Windows file explorer to select where the world will be stored. It can be imported by opening the file with Minecraft or the import world feature. Only available on Windows. There is one setting for world exportation.

Clear player data
This will erase all players data completely, including chest contents, inventories, and locations.

Reset world
This will remove your current world from your Realm's active slot and replace it with a brand new world. Anyone currently playing will be temporarily disconnected.

Deletes all world data (except Saves) and activates a new, default world in the world slot. This does not allow world creation settings to be changed, which requires to replace it with a local world.
Replace world
This will remove your current world from your Realm's active slot and let you choose a world to replace it with. Anyone currently playing will be temporarily disconnected.

Opens a list of local worlds. Selecting one will replace the world slot on the Realm with the world, overwriting the old world.
Download world
Downloads the world and stores it locally on the device, with a name in the format [REALM NAME] - Copy.

Settings changes are applied when the world is running on the server
Size: SizeMB - Last saved: DD Mon YYYY

The current size of the world, and the date when the world file was last edited.

 Advanced

World seed
Guides the algorithm that magically creates your world

This is the world seed, a random number which cannot be changed. In Realms, the value is not shown. A button on the right allows to copy the seed to the clipboard.

Flat world
A flat world to build up or mine down into

Shows whether the Overworld generates with a flat world, cannot be changed.

Flat world preset Classic Flat
The layers of blocks that make up your flat world

When "Flat world" is enabled, this shows the selected flat world preset for the generation. Below the selected flat world preset, a list of blocks that make up the flat world is shown with the amount of layers for each block.

Show coordinates
Display your current position

Shows the player's current coordinates on the HUD without decimals, applied for all players in the world.

Show days played
Display the number of in-game days played

Shows the number of in-game days played on the HUD, applied for all players in the world.

Recipe unlocking BE: edu:
Collect materials to unlock recipes in your recipe book

When enabled, crafting recipes need to be unlocked through gameplay before they appear in the recipe book. Locked recipes still function when items are put in the crafting grid without using the recipe book.

Fire spreads
Fire can spread between entities

Controls whether fire can spread from block to block, between entities, and distinguish naturally.

TNT explodes
Red box goes boom

Controls whether TNT and minecarts with TNT can explode.

Mob loot
Mobs drop items when killed

Controls whether mobs can drop items when killed.

Natural regeneration
Gain or lose health based on your hunger

Controls whether hunger can affect the player's health; a high hunger bar regenerating health or an empty hunger bar lowering the health.

Tile drops
Blocks drop when they're broken

Controls whether blocks can drop items when they are broken.

Skip night by sleeping
Sleeping in a bed will skip to morning

Controls whether sleeping in a bed at night or during thunderstorms skips to morning and clear weather.

Required Sleeping Players All (100%)
How many players must be in bed to skip the night?

Changes how many players are required to sleep before the night will be skipped, if "Skip night by sleeping" is enabled. Can be set between 0%, where the night will always be skipped if anyone sleeps in a bed, and 100% where all players need to be in bed before the night is skipped.

Immediate respawn
Skip "You died!" menu and immediately respawn

Controls whether to skip the death screen and immediately respawn after the player has died. In Hardcore mode, the "Game over!" screen will be skipped and the player will instantly enter Spectator mode upon death.

Respawn blocks explode BE: edu:
Respawn anchors and beds can explode

Controls whether beds and respawn anchors explode when used in the wrong dimension.

Respawn radius 10
Respawn within this block radius when you die and no custom spawnpoint is set (max 128)

An integer input controlling the spread distance around the world spawn where players randomly spawn if they don't have a custom respawn point. Can be set between 0 and 128.

Simulation distance 4 chunks
The game loads and applies changes within a range of 64x64 blocks from the player

Allows the simulation distance to be changed, which determines the range of mob spawning/despawning, game ticks, and chunk updates. Can be set to 4, 6, 8, 10, or 12 chunks. Some devices may limit the simulation distance option to 8 or 10 chunks. Not available in Realms.

Starting map
Spawn with a blank map to explore your world

When a player spawns in the world for the first time, an empty locator map appears in their hotbar. This is grayed out and cannot be changed.

Bonus chest
Spawn close to a chest with items to get you started

Shows whether a bonus chest generated near the world spawn during world generation, cannot be changed.

 Multiplayer

Multiplayer game
Other players can join your world

Controls whether multiplayer is enabled in this world, not available in Realms. If enabled, the game is still considered singleplayer until other players join.

Settings
The following settings are grayed out unless multiplayer is enabled.

Player access / PlayStation™ Network friends Friends
Determines who can join this world trough Minecraft's social network. Players can always join when they received an invite from the pause menu, and if enabled, the world shows as multiplayer world in the world list of friends, or the game can be joined from the profile. In Realms, this is a "Manage members" button located below the other options, which redirects to the Members tab of the Realm's settings, where players and default permissions can be changed.
Invite players
Anyone you send a direct invite can join

Friends
Anyone you've added as a Minecraft friend can join

Friends of friends
Friends of your Minecraft friends can join

Default player permissions Member
The assigned player permissions to new players joining the game. These can always be customized per player from the pause menu. Not available in Realms.
Visitor
Visitors can only observe your world, not interact with it

Member
Members can build and mine, attack players and mobs, and interact with items and entities

Operator
Operators can teleport and use commands, in addition to anything Members can do

Visible to LAN players
Players on your local network can join your world

Controls whether the world is visible to any player on the same LAN network as a multiplayer game, regardless of the player access setting. Not available in Realms.

Friendly fire
Players can damage each other

Controls whether players can directly damage each other, using melee attacks or projectiles.

Player waypoints Everyone
Select which players are shown as waypoints on the locator bar

Controls whether the locator bar is visible if multiple players are in the world.
Off
No player waypoints are added to the locator bar

Everyone
Adds all other players as waypoints to the locator bar

 Cheats

Cheats
Customize the game with cheat settings

Controls whether most commands are available for operators, unlocks the following cheat settings. Enabling this disables achievements, not available on Hardcore.

Cheat settings
The following settings are grayed out unless cheats are enabled.

Daylight cycle Normal
Controls functionality of the daylight cycle. Always day is not available in Realms.
Normal
In-game time passes normally, from day to night

Always day
In-game time is locked to noon

Lock time
In-game time is locked to current time

Keep inventory
Keep all items in the inventory when you die

Controls whether players keep their inventory contents after dying.

Mob spawning
Mobs spawn naturally

Controls whether mobs can spawn naturally.

Mob griefing
Mobs can move and destroy blocks in your world

Controls whether certain mobs can move and destroy blocks, such as endermen and creepers.

Entities drop loot
Non-mob entities, like paintings, drop items when destroyed

Controls whether non-mob entities can drop items when destroyed.

Weather cycle
The possibility to get rain, snow and thunderstorms

Controls whether the weather can change between rain, snow, and thunderstorms over time, or is locked to the current weather.

Command blocks
Use commands to program these blocks

Controls whether command blocks can execute commands and can be customized by operators.

Minecraft Education features
Enables educational items like the chemistry kit

Controls whether to enable certain features from Minecraft Education. Not available in Realms.

Random tick speed 1
Affects the behavior of certain blocks, like the speed of vegetation growth and decay (max 4096)

An integer input that controls the rate at which random events occur in the world caused by random ticks. Can be set between 0 and 4096, contains a quick reset button next to the box.

 Resource packs

Shared packs
Players are asked to download all local packs in order to join the game.

Controls whether resource packs on the world are optional or forced. When turned off, players can refuse to download and enable local resource packs, and select their own packs in the Global Resources settings. When turned on, players will download all enabled resource packs and global resource packs are disabled.

Active

Local
Lists all active local resource packs. When multiple resource packs are enabled that can conflict with each other, the highest resource pack in the list will overwrite conflicting features from other packs. Each pack can be dragged to any location in the list. A pack can be removed with the "Remove" button next to each pack, and the description can be shown by selecting the pack. For Marketplace packs, there is a button to open the purchase page in the Marketplace. For all packs, there is a button to open a menu with the technical details of the pack, such as the UUID, storage location, and error logs. Certain packs have a settings menu which allows to customize features from the pack and view custom information.

Global
Lists all active global resource packs. The same details and links can be opened for global packs as for local packs, but they can only be enabled or disabled in the "Global Resources" tab in the main settings menu.

Available

Owned
A dropdown widget that lists available resource packs obtained from the Marketplace, imported custom packs, or stored manually in  development_resource_packs. Each pack can be activated by pressing the button on the right of the pack, and more information can be shown by selecting the pack. Marketplace packs also show a button to open the purchase screen in the Marketplace. Some packs may require downloading before they can be activated. Enabling a resource pack that is part of an add-on also enables the connected behavior pack if available.

Marketplace Pass
A dropdown widget that lists available resource packs from Marketplace Pass. They can be opened the same way as packs in the "Owned" list. If the player is not subscribed to the Marketplace Pass, a button that opens the Marketplace Pass purchase screen shows instead.

 Get more packs
Hundreds of packs available in the Marketplace

Redirects to a Marketplace page featuring new resource packs.

 Behavior packs

Active
A submenu that lists active behavior packs, sets of customized features that affect gameplay. Behavior packs can be opened similarly to resource packs, but are always connected to the world data. Removing behavior packs might cause unexpected behavior.

Available
A submenu that lists available behavior packs, which can be imported custom packs, or stored manually in  development_behavior_packs or  behavior_packs, but not Marketplace add-ons as these are activated in the "Resource packs" tab above. Enabling a behavior pack that is part of an add-on also enables the connected resource pack if available.

 Experiments

Experiments are potential new features. Be careful as things might break.

Allows the player to enable several experimental features, not available in Realms. After saving the world with experiments enabled, the experiments can't be toggled off again. See Experiments § Bedrock Edition for details about each experiment.
Gameplay
Change the way your game looks

Villager Trade Rebalancing
Contains updated trades for villagers for the purpose of rebalancing

Drop 3 of 2026​[until: BE 26.50]
Explore a new surface biome and find the abandoned camps spread throughout the world

Add-on creators
For creators of game packs and other add-ons

Upcoming Creator Features
Includes actor properties and adjustable fog parameters

Beta APIs
Use "-beta" versions of API modules in add-on packs

Experimental Creator Camera Features
Enables the use of the latest custom camera features

Render Dragon Features for Creators
Enable the deferred rendering pipeline. Requires a PBR-enabled resource pack and compatible hardware.

Edit project
The Edit project screen in Bedrock Editor
The Edit project screen in Bedrock Editor uses the classic UI, which looks vastly different from the Ore UI Edit world screen and offers some different options.
At the top-left, the world thumbnail is shown but cannot be changed, and a "Resume" button allows the player to join the project.

Game

Option

Description

Default

Project

Project Name

Allows the name of the world to be set to a custom string from up to 30 characters.

My World

Export Settings

Some functionality may be overridden during Editing session, but are fully respected when exported

Default Game Mode

Allows the default game mode of the world to be changed, which is the game mode all players have if they don't have the personal game mode changed. The available modes are Survival, Creative, and Adventure.

Survival

Hardcore mode

Shows whether Hardcore mode is enabled or not, but can't be changed.

OFF

Difficulty

Allows the default difficulty setting to be changed. Can be set between Peaceful, Easy, Normal, and Hard.

Normal

World Preferences

Starting Map

Shows whether the starting map option was enabled upon world creation, but can't be changed.

OFF

Bonus Chest

Shows whether the bonus chest option was enabled upon world creation, but can't be changed.

Player permission when joining from invite

The default player permission when a player joins the world from an invite. Available permissions are Visitor, Member, and Operator.

Member

World Type

Shows the world type of the world, which is Infinite by default. If the "Flat world" option has been enabled, the world type shows Flat.

Infinite

Seed

Shows the world seed which randomly generates the world's terrain and features, but can't be changed.

Simulation Distance

Controls the simulation distance selected for the world, affecting the radius in which chunks are loaded around the player. Available options are 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 chunks.

4 chunks

World Options

Friendly Fire

Controls whether players can damage each other.

ON

Show Coordinates

Controls whether to display the player's coordinates.

OFF

Player Waypoints

Controls whether the locator bar is visible if multiple players are in the world. This can be set to "Off" and "Everyone", but the UI is broken.

Everyone

Show Days Played

Controls whether to display the in-game days played.

OFF

Fire Spreads

Controls whether fire can spread.

ON

Recipes Unlock

Controls whether recipes in the recipe book need to be unlocked.

TNT Explodes

Controls whether TNT can explode.

Respawn Blocks Explode

Controls whether beds and respawn anchors explode when used in the wrong dimension.

Mob Loot

Controls whether mobs drop items when killed.

Natural Regeneration

Controls whether hunger can affect the player's health.

Tile Drops

Controls whether blocks drop when they are broken.

Beds Work

Controls whether sleeping in bed at night skips to morning.

Players needed to skip night

How many players must be in bed to skip the night.

100%

Immediate Respawn

Controls whether to skip the death screen and immediately respawn.

OFF

Respawn Radius

An integer input controlling the spread distance around the world spawn where players spawn. Defaults to 10, with a maximum value of 128.

10

Experiments

In this section, all experiments are shown with a toggle. Activating one automatically creates a copy of the world with the experiment enabled, after which it cannot be disabled again.

OFF

Cheats

Activate Cheats

Controls whether commands and other cheat settings are enabled. When disabled, the following cheat settings are grayed out.

OFF

Education Edition

Controls whether to enable certain features from Minecraft Education.

Always Day

Controls whether the in-game time is locked to noon.

Do Daylight Cycle

Controls whether the daylight cycle is enabled, or the time is locked to the current time.

ON

Keep Inventory

Controls whether players keep their inventory after dying.

OFF

Mob Spawning

Controls whether mobs spawn naturally.

ON

Mob Griefing

Controls whether mobs can move and destroy blocks.

Entities Drop Loot

Controls whether non-mob entities drop items when destroyed.

Weather Cycle

Controls whether the weather can change between rain, snow, and thunderstorms, or is locked to the current weather.

Command Blocks Enabled

Controls whether to enable command blocks.

Random Tick Speed

An integer input that controls the rate at which random events occur in the world caused by random ticks. Defaults to 1, with a maximum value of 4096. Contains a reset button next to the box.

1

Project Options

Export Project

Opens the file explorer to export the project as .mcproject file, which can be imported as project in the Editor.

Export Template

Opens the file explorer to export the project as .mctemplate file, a world template which can be customized and re-created with its add-ons and game settings, optionally world data.

Copy Project

Creates a duplicate of the project.

Delete Project

Permanently deletes the project.

Multiplayer

Option

Description

Default

Multiplayer Game

Whether multiplayer is enabled in this world and other players can join.

ON

Microsoft account Settings

Which type of players can join the world, which can be Invited Players Only, Friends Only, or Friends of Friends. Grayed out when "Multiplayer Game" is disabled.

Friends Only

Visible to LAN Players

Whether players on the same LAN network can join the world. Not available when "Multiplayer Game" is disabled.

ON

Add-Ons
Enabling and disabling resource packs and behavior packs works exactly the same as in the Ore UI version of the edit world screen, however, the buttons are located differently. All packs are located behind collapsible section headers. The options for each pack can be viewed by selecting a pack. Press "Activate" or "Deactivate" to enable or disable packs, and press "View in Store" to open the purchase screen in the Marketplace for Marketplace packs. Activated packs can be moved in the list by selecting an arrow button on the bottom-right of a pack. For activated packs only, the technical details screen can be opened by pressing the green checkmark button on the right.

History
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionDecember 28, 2024Preview 1.20.60.23
 Edit world screen has been updated to match Ore UI, except on Realms and in the Editor.1.21.130Preview 1.21.120.25
Removed the "Backups" tab from the Realms Edit world screen as the general Realms Saves replaced its functionality.26.20Preview 1.21.110.20
 The Edit world screen for Realms has been updated to match Ore UI.26.30Preview 26.30.29
Replaced the "Locator bar" toggle with a "Player waypoints" setting.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education1.21.91Preview 1.21.90.1
 Edit world screen has been updated to match Ore UI.
Issues
Issues relating to "Edit world" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Bedrock Edition



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab



			The "Experiments" tab



			The exportation settings menu


Realms



			The General tab



			The Advanced tab



			The Multiplayer tab



			The Cheats tab



			The Resource packs tab



			The Behavior packs tab



			The Experiments tab


Historical screenshots



			The "Edit your World" screen in older versions of Pocket Edition



			The Classic UI edit world screen with "Harcore mode" enabled



			The old edit world screen for Realms



			The "Backups" tab in Realms before 1.21.130



			The "Game Settings" tab in the old Realms Edit world screen


Minecraft Education



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The "Classroom" tab



			The "Cloud Storage" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Coding & Scripting" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab


Historical screenshots



			Edit world screen from ? to 1.21.90.1 for Preview and 1.21.91 for full release onwards


See also
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education UI refresh
Notes

 Only shown in Realms

References

 MCPE-151913 – Switching to Creative Mode doesn't activate cheats in the new UI – resolved as "Unresolved".

 "I don't know yet. The team that is working on the Editor Screen first aims at improving the UI/UX while keeping the feature parity with the old screen."  – @Volgar  on X (formerly Twitter), December 14, 2023

 MCPE-174595 – Missing Export and Import buttons on mobile devices – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MCPE-180257 – Missing Export and Import buttons on Chromebooks – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "Well, actually, that's not all, my dears. In today's preview the new Edit World screen is rolling out too! Check it out, and use the feedback button on the screen to tell us what you think."  – @Volgar  on X (formerly Twitter), December 13, 2023

Navigation