For other uses about "effect", see Effect (disambiguation).



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.





This page describes content that has been removed from Minecraft. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Minecraft, but has since been removed.

In custom dimensions, an effect was a set of rendering features utilised for defining a dimension's atmosphere and visuals.

Contents

1 Elements
2 Examples

2.1 minecraft:overworld
2.2 minecraft:the_nether
2.3 minecraft:the_end

3 Overview
4 History
5 Navigation

Elements
The dimension effect governs the following things:

Whether the dimension has ground
The sky type to be used
Whether to always use a bright lightmap
Whether the ambient light level is constant
Fog color
Examples



This section is missing information about: Descriptions 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Note that as of Java Edition 1.16.5, all effect features are hardcoded, and new ones cannot be created without mods. Dimensions created using effects from existing modded dimensions tend to carry dimension effects to the respective dimension as expected.

minecraft:overworld
The Overworld has the following effect elements:

Cloud level: 192[verify]
Has ground: true
Sky type: NORMAL (sun, moon, stars etc.)
Force bright lightmap: false
Constant ambient light level: false
No fog apart from view distance fog
The fog color is affected by the time of day. The new color C can be calculated using the following formula, where T is the time of day and [abc] is the existing color.
A=max⁡(0,min⁡(12+2cos⁡(T×2π),1))
C=[a(0.94A+0.06)b(0.94A+0.06)c(0.91A+0.09)]










minecraft:the_nether
The Nether has the following effect elements:

No clouds (cloud level: NaN)[verify]
Has ground: true
Sky type: NONE (no celestial bodies)
Force bright lightmap: false
Constant ambient light level: false
Has fog​[more information needed]
The fog color is not affected by the time of day as the nether has no daylight cycle.










minecraft:the_end
The End has the following effect elements:

No clouds (cloud level: NaN)[verify]
Has ground: false
Sky type: END (no celestial bodies, purple spotted sky texture)
Force bright lightmap: true
Constant ambient light level: false
No fog apart from view distance fog
The fog color is not affected by the time of day as the end has no daylight cycle, however each RGB component is multiplied by 0.15.










Overview

minecraft:overworld

Celestial bodies; clouds;[verify] no extra fog; fog color depends on time of day

minecraft:the_nether

No celestial bodies; extra fog; no clouds

minecraft:the_end

No celestial bodies; no clouds; purple spotted sky texture

History
Java Edition1.16Pre-release 1
Presumably this is when dimension effects became customizable.[is this the correct version?]1.21.625w15a
Clouds presence is no longer controlled by the dimension effect and is now its own, separate field.1.21.1125w45a
Dimension effects have been removed entirely with their aspects split into other controllable settings.
Navigation