For other uses, see Elytra (disambiguation).

Elytra










Rarity tier

  Epic

Armor

0 ()

Armor toughness

0 ()

Durability

JE: 432BE: 433

Knockback resistance

0

Renewable

No

Stackable

No

{
    "title": "Elytra",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #f5f; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Epic",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0 (<span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"0 armor points\">(link to File:Empty Armor (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=🛡)</span>)",
            "label": "(link to Armor#Armor points article, displayed as Armor)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0 (<span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"0 armor points\">(link to File:Empty Armor (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=🛡)</span>)",
            "label": "(link to Armor toughness article, displayed as Armor toughness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' 432<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' 433",
            "label": "(link to Durability article, displayed as Durability)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0",
            "label": "(link to Knockback resistance article, displayed as Knockback resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Elytra",
        "Broken Elytra"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Elytra.png",
        "Dummy Elytra.png"
    ]
}

Elytra are endgame equipment found exclusively in End ships, which are located in the outer islands of the End. While worn in the chest armor slot, they allow for gliding by pressing jump while in midair. Firework rockets can be used for propulsion while gliding.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Natural generation

2 Usage

2.1 Flying

2.1.1 Speed and altitude
2.1.2 Stalling
2.1.3 Powered flight
2.1.4 Durability

2.2 Repairing

2.2.1 Combining
2.2.2 Anvil repair

2.3 Enchanting

3 Sounds
4 Data values

4.1 ID

5 Achievements
6 Advancements
7 History

7.1 Development
7.2 Java Edition
7.3 Bedrock Edition
7.4 Legacy Console Edition
7.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
7.6 Data history

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Renders

10.1.1 Worn
10.1.2 Capes
10.1.3 Item

10.2 Screenshots
10.3 In other media

11 References
12 External links
13 Navigation

Obtaining
Natural generation
Elytra are found in End cities in an item frame in the treasure room of the End ship. A shulker guards the elytra along with the ship's two loot chests.

Usage

Elytra are equipped in the chestplate slot, either by placing the item directly in the slot, by pressing use item while held in hand, or by firing a point-blank dispenser at a target. They are gray in color by default but adopt the design of any cape the player is wearing. They maintain their in-world texture design even when they're broken or enchanted.
Smithing templates are not able to be applied to elytra as they are not classified as armor.

Flying
 "Glide" redirects here.  For the Legacy Console Edition mini game, see Glide (mini game).
To fly, the player must press the jump key while in mid-air (i.e., while jumping or falling), causing the elytra to spread apart like a beetle's wings. In flight, the player controls movement direction by turning (moving the aim point) as normal. To adjust pitch, the player moves the aim point upward and downward. Losing altitude increases speed, and gaining altitude decreases speed. Firework rockets can be used to propel the player in the direction they are facing at a speed of 35.5 blocks per second. Additionally, speed is quickly lost from sharp changes in direction.
The player can take fall damage when landing at an angle deeper than approximately 50°.​[more information needed] Players also take kinetic damage (fly_into_wall damage type) when colliding with a block at a high enough speed. When a player dies this way, they receive the death message "<player> experienced kinetic energy". Note that colliding with a horizontal surface does not cause this type of damage, so the player takes no damage when flying into a ceiling. The amount of damage caused by a collision is determined by the formula:
damage=10×(change in horizontal velocity)−3
A safe and simple cruise with the highest travel distance can be achieved by aiming directly at the horizon while at the glide's altitude limit. The player's speed is slow enough to allow them time to do other things during a long flight, like sort out their inventory.
A player stops gliding when colliding with a ladder, as well as with all types of vines in Bedrock Edition. Touching water also stops flight in Bedrock Edition. In Bedrock Edition, flight can be cancelled midair by pressing the jump key.
In Bedrock Edition, a player in Creative mode or with the "mayfly" ability can alternatively hold the jump key to fly up while gliding with elytra. Double-pressing the jump key enters regular Creative flight instead.

Speed and altitude
Elytra have a minimum speed of about 7.2 m/s (obtained by gliding with a strong upward pitch of 30°). A player in flight who drops to 0 speed quickly accelerates back up to at least this minimum. The player can increase speed by choosing to descend faster, but afterward, they typically do not regain nearly as much altitude. In the real world, drag increases with speed and slows an aircraft; Minecraft also mimics this.
Sharp turns are a fast way to lose speed. Quicker turns cause greater losses, while gentle movements have small effects. Making a hairpin turn can be used for making high-speed landings safe as well as for precise landings on small targets like rooftops. The player should aim to glide just above the target then immediately reverse direction right over the target, making adjustments as necessary.
With the right technique, it is possible to achieve infinite flight until the elytra break. First, start from at least 50 blocks above the ground, though around 80 blocks up is ideal. Fly down with a pitch between 32–33° to build up speed until the player loses about 60-70 blocks of altitude. Then, immediately pitch up to about -50°, and slowly pitch down by +0.5° per tick (+10° per second) until reaching 32° again, and repeat. If done correctly, the player can gain 3 blocks of altitude per cycle, though it may be possible to gain up to 10 blocks of altitude per cycle on average.​[more information needed]
The lowest rate of altitude loss without changing pitch is about 1.5 m/s, obtained by gliding at the with a slight upward pitch of about 12° to 15°.
The player can achieve the best possible glide ratio obtainable without changing pitch by aiming directly at the horizon (0°). This ratio is about 10.06 blocks traveled horizontally per 1 block of starting altitude, not including the time and altitude required to build up speed.
Slow Falling potions greatly decrease the player's vertical and horizontal velocity when flying with elytra. Although this greatly decreases speed, it does not reduce the rate of durability loss of elytra. The Feather Falling enchantment does not affect elytra speed and does not reduce damage from colliding with blocks with elytra.
It is possible to calculate the glide range by multiplying the altitude by the cotangent of the glide angle (altitude×cot⁡(glide angle∘)). For example, a player gliding from an altitude of 64 blocks above ground with a glide angle of 15° can glide for 64×cot⁡(15∘) or ~238.85 blocks (ignoring terrain).

Stalling
Trying for too high a pitch reduces the player's lift. At a pitch of 30° above the horizon, the player has the lowest possible airspeed of 7.2 m/s. Above that, the player might be considered to be in a stall. Increasing the pitch gets closer to a free-fall, and stalled flight at 60° is enough to cause fall damage. Stalling at 90° is a true free-fall.
Recovering from a stall is done by readjusting to any safe pitch as quickly as the player likes. This can be done by pivoting to look at the horizon.

Powered flight
Firework rockets are used for speed boosts while gliding.
Firework rockets can be used for propulsion during flight by placing it in either hand and using. Using a firework rocket while gliding makes the player move in the direction they're facing at 33.5 blocks per second, for a time dependent on the rocket's flight duration. If any entities are leashed to the player, they instantly detach from the player when they use a firework rocket.
If the rocket is equipped with firework stars, it explodes at the end of its flight, inflicting damage based on the number of stars.
It is possible to gain altitude during powered flight, making it possible to glide for extreme distances.

Durability

A broken elytra

Durability decreases by one point each second when gliding. A pair of elytra has 432 durability, allowing 7 minutes and 12 seconds of gliding time without enchantments, providing more than 10,000 blocks of transport distance. It is possible to apply the Unbreaking enchantment using an anvil and an enchanted book, which affects the elytra, in the same way it does to tools. Unbreaking III increases elytra's flight time to about four seconds per durability point, a total of 28 minutes and 48 seconds.
When the durability reaches 1, the elytra stop working until they are repaired, adopting a tattered texture in the inventory. The damage ends at durability 1, so they can never fully break.
The usage of firework rockets doesn't decrease the elytra's durability.

Repairing
Combining

Ingredients
Crafting recipe
Notes

Damaged Elytra

The durability of the two pairs is added together, plus extra 21 points of durability.

Ingredients
Grinding recipe
Notes

Damaged Elytra

The durability of the two pairs is added together, plus extra 21 points of durability.

Anvil repair
Main article: Anvil mechanics § Unit repair

Ingredients
Anvil recipe

Damaged Elytra +Phantom Membrane

Elytra

A pair of elytra can be repaired in an anvil by adding phantom membranes, with each membrane restoring 25% of the elytra's durability (108 points). Two pairs of elytra can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the elytra's enchantments.

Enchanting
A pair of elytra cannot be enchanted on the enchanting table, but on an anvil it can receive the following enchantments:

Name

Description

Max level

Method

Weight

Unbreaking

Grants a chance to negate durability consumption.

III

Anvil

5

Mending

Repairs the elytra when obtaining experience.

I

Anvil

2

Curse of Vanishing

The elytra vanishes on death and does not drop as an item.

I

Anvil

1

Curse of Binding

Removes the ability to un-equip the elytra.

I

Anvil

1

Sounds
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Elytra rustlePlayersWhen a pair of elytra is equippeditem.armor.equip_elytrasubtitles.item.armor.equip_elytra​1.01.016​SwooshPlayersWhile flying with a pair of elytraitem.elytra.flyingsubtitles.item.elytra.flying​0.0–1.01.016​Item breaksEntity-DependentWhen a pair of elytra's durability is exhaustedentity.item.breaksubtitles.entity.item.break​0.80.8–1.216
 Not actually displayed, see MC-277984

 Is a quarter of the player's velocity. If flying for less than 1 second, it is 0.0; otherwise, if flying for less than 2 seconds, it is between 0.0 and a quarter of the player's velocity (scaling up with time until 2 seconds)

 If the volume is greater than 0.8, 0.8-volume is added to the pitch

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Elytra rustlePlayersWhen an is equippedarmor.equip_leathersubtitles.item.armor.equip_elytra​1.01.0​SwooshPlayersWhile flying with a pair of elytraelytra.loopsubtitles.item.elytra.flying​1.01.0​Item breaksPlayersWhen a elytra's durability is exhaustedrandom.breaksubtitles.entity.item.break​1.00.9
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierForm
Translation key ElytraelytraItem
item.minecraft.elytra
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID Form
Translation key Elytraelytra564Item
item.elytra.name
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherSuper SonicUse Elytra to fly through a 1 by 1 gap while moving faster than 40 m/sThe 1×1 block gap does not need to be on the wall, you can fly into a 1×1 block gap whether its on the top, bottom, or side.30Gold
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Sky's the LimitFind ElytraHave a pair of elytra in the inventory.
History



This section is missing information about: When was the ability to fly in Creative mode with elytra using the jump button added to Bedrock Edition? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Development
October 5, 2015
Tommaso Checchi tweets that Jeb is working on a secret feature for Minecraft Java Edition, saying "it's like Mario 64."October 6, 2015
Jeb tweets an animated GIF revealing a player gliding around an End city. Elytra have a dragon-wing texture.October 6, 2015
Jeb tweets an image of folded wings, which replace the cape the player is wearing.October 6, 2015
Jeb tweets another animated GIF of his character with Mojang-themed elytra, gliding along a river through a taiga forest.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.915w41a
   Added elytra.

Elytra are currently repaired with leather when using anvil.15w42a
Elytra now spread slightly when the player crouches.

The player can now take damage from gliding into walls, and crashing into a wall now has its own death message.

When flying with elytra, players are only 0.6 blocks tall. They, therefore, can now fit through 1-block gaps while gliding.
The player's point of view now shifts while gliding.

The player can no longer go higher than the starting point of the glide.16w04a
Players now keep their smaller hitbox when gliding into small spaces, allowing them to crawl. When they leave the space where they do not fit in with the larger hitbox, the hitbox increases back to normal.16w06a
Elytra now recognize the player's cape and adopt a different design for every official cape (see Gallery). In addition, Jeb had stated that he was working on a feature to allow players to change the design like regular player skins.16w07a
Elytra are now activated by jumping mid-air. The player no longer glides automatically when falling.

The player no longer stops gliding when flying into water, lava or cobwebs.

The cape option in the options menu now also disables custom elytra textures.

Added the game rule disableElytraMovementCheck.1.9.1pre1
Sounds while gliding with elytra have been added.1.1116w32a
Elytra can now be placed on armor stands, just like any other chestplate.16w38a
Elytra are now visible on zombies, skeletons, and armor stands.16w41a
Elytra now have their own sound when equipped.1.11.116w50a
Elytra can now be propelled through the air by using firework rockets.1.1318w07a
A smooth transition is now applied to the camera when the player starts or stops gliding.18w14a
Elytra now require phantom membrane to be repaired, instead of leather.18w21a
The rarity of elytra has been changed from "Common" to "Uncommon".1.1418w43a
   The textures of the elytra have been changed.1.1519w39a
The deployment animation of elytra causes player blinks when the deployment events has overlapped.19w42a
The deployment and folding animations of elytra have been improved and become smoother.

Elytra can now start to glide immediately after a jump, not only during falls.1.18experimental snapshot 7
Elytra no longer use up durability when gliding regularly. Durability is now consumed only when a firework rocket is used.

Speed boosts from firework rockets are slightly weaker.

Now break when the item reaches 0 durability.21w37a
The elytra changes in experimental snapshot 7 have been reverted.1.19pre1
Equipping elytra through the inventory now plays a sound.1.19.423w05a
Equipping elytra while held with an item already in the chestplate slot now swaps the two items.1.21.224w33a
The rarity of elytra has been changed from "Uncommon" to "Epic".1.21.424w44a
A subtitle for flying has been added as "Elytra swooshes".24w45a
The flying subtitle has been changed to "Swoosh".1.21.525w02a
Elytra flight now cancelled when flying into climbable blocks like ladders, scaffolding, vines etc..1.21.1125w41a
Players can now glide with elytra through vines, twisting vines and weeping vines.25w42a
Players can now glide with elytra through cave vines.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
   Added elytra. In-game, they are known as elytra wings.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Elytra can now be propelled through the air by using firework rockets.1.2.3beta 1.2.3.3
Elytra Wings have been renamed to Elytra.1.6.0beta 1.6.0.5
Elytra can now be repaired in an anvil using phantom membrane, instead of leather.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
   The textures of elytra have been changed.1.21.30Preview 1.21.30.21
The rarity of elytra has been changed from "Common" to "Epic".
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 151.0.1
   Added elytra.
Players keep their smaller hitbox when gliding into small spaces, allowing them to crawl. When they leave the space where they do not fit in with the larger hitbox, the hitbox increases back to normal.TU53CU431.491.501.49Patch 231.0.3
Elytra can now be propelled through the air by using firework rockets.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Elytra can now be placed on armor stands, just like any other chestplate.
Equipping elytra using the quick equip functionality in creative mode now duplicates the elytra, as in Java Edition.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Elytra are now repaired on the anvil using phantom membrane instead of leather.
A smooth transition is now applied to the camera when the player starts or stops gliding.
The elytra flight is now cancelled when touching water, as in Bedrock Edition.  1.90
   The textures of elytra have been changed.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.7.10
   Added elytra.



			First elytra designs created by jeb_ fitting to the official capes and posted on Reddit.



			The first image of elytra, tweeted by Jeb. Click to play.



			Folded elytra, which resembles the cape the user is wearing.



			The MINECON 2015 cape elytra.



			Dinnerbone flying upside down.


Data history
Java Edition1.1317w47a
Prior to The Flattening, this item's numeral ID was 443.
Issues
Issues relating to "Elytra" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
In reality, elytra are not used for flight. They are the tough forewings of beetles and earwigs that cover the wings they actually use for flight. However, like Minecraft elytra, some beetles can use them for gliding.
A flying player has a shorter hitbox than usual: A 0.6 block cube centered on the player's feet.
This is different from swimming, where the hitbox is centered on the player's torso.
In Java Edition if the player glides into deep water with elytra equipped, the animation does not stop, giving it the appearance of a swimming animation. The animation stops once the player touches the ground. Additionally, firework rockets can be used with elytra underwater with a short boost duration.
Elytra do not deactivate when the player flies into lava.
Elytra can be equipped onto some mobs using commands. This has no effect unless the mob has the FallFlying tag set to 1b. Except for squid, mobs glide forward, unable to control the movement before landing, at which time they regain their AI.
Exceptions to this are squid as the squid's AI causes it to attempt swimming in midair, making it fall straight down because it conflicts with the elytra mechanics.
Because chickens fall slowly, they can move more distance.
Endermen, tamed wolves, and tamed cats that are not sitting cannot teleport until they hit the ground.
Because mobs do not regain control until they hit the ground, vexes fall until they die or despawn as they cannot touch the ground.
Mobs capable of flying, such as parrots or vexes can steer in air, though they cannot travel up or down. Dolphins also have this ability.
4J Studios created an elytra-centered tutorial map for console edition when elytra were first introduced to this platform, this map is themed as "ruins of an ancient civilization of Minecraft worshippers" and showcases the new amplified terrain generation. This map can be seen behind the scenes. On 28 March 2017, 4J Studios added an elytra-themed minigame for Legacy Console Edition called "Glide;" it consists of Time Attack and Score Attack mode.
A player who jumps with both elytra and the Slow Falling effect travels slightly upward, which is a cheap but time-consuming alternative to fireworks and Riptide-enchanted tridents.
Mojang has considered the suggestion of combining elytra with a chestplate, but eventually decided against it, stating that elytra taking up armor is an intentional decision of game balancing.
In Minecraft is turning 15, Zuri can be seen wearing elytra that appear disproportionately small.
Gallery
Renders
Worn



			Alex gliding with elytra



			Ari gliding with elytra



			Kai gliding with elytra



			Noor gliding with elytra



			Steve gliding with elytra



			Sunny gliding with elytra



			Zuri gliding with elytra



			Efe gliding with elytra



			Makena gliding with elytra


Capes



			Classic Mojang Cape



			Mojang Cape



			Mojang Studios Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Mojang Studios Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			MINECON 2011 Cape



			MINECON 2012 Cape



			MINECON 2013 Cape



			MINECON 2015 Cape



			Scrapped elytra design for MINECON 2015 cape



			MINECON 2016 Cape



			Founder's Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Founder's Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Translator Cape



			dannyBstyle's Cape



			JulianClark's Cape



			Millionth Customer Cape



			Moderator Cape



			MrMessiah's Cape



			Prismarine Cape



			Realms MapMaker Cape



			Cobalt Cape



			Scrolls Champion Cape



			Turtle Cape



			Birthday Cape



			Valentine Cape



			Oxeye Cape



			Blueprint Cape



			Migrator Cape



			Pan Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			The Pan Cape!‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Progress Pride Cape



			Vanilla Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			One Vanilla Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Cherry Blossom Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Cherry Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Follower's Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Follower's Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Purple Heart Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Purple Heart Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			15th Anniversary Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			15th Anniversary Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			MCC 15th Year Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			MCC 15th Year Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Minecraft Experience Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Villager Rescue Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Mojang Office Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Mojang Office Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Home Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Home Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Menace Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Menace Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Yearn Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Yearn Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Common Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Common Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Copper Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Copper Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Zombie Horse Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Zombie Horse Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Moonlight Trail Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Moonlight Trail Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Crafter Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Crafter Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]



			Builder Cape‌[Java Edition  only]



			Builder Cape‌[Bedrock Edition  only]


Item



			An enchanted pair of elytra


Screenshots



			Elytra in an End ship



			A player wearing elytra



			A player using elytra



			Elytra with only 1 durability



			A player gliding while blocking with a shield


In other media



			Efe wearing elytra with the zombie horse cape



			Super Sonic and Shadow flying alongside Steve with elytra



			Screenshot of Glide mini-games



			Another screenshot of Glide mini-games



			Official elytra themed tutorial map



			Artwork of Steve and Alex using elytra.



			Glide launch poster



			Ari flying with several parrots



			Makena flying with elytra



			Zuri wearing the elytra item, not the elytra model



			Elytra concept art for A Minecraft Movie



			Two pairs of elytra as they appear in A Minecraft Movie



			Elytra as seen in Minecraft Dungeons



			Elytra as seen in Minecraft: Story Mode


References

 "Finding the optimal elytra gliding angle"     by Heppe (@HeppeGaming)  – YouTube, Feb 24, 2025.

 https://youtu.be/N3-hYjDvZS0?t=296

 MC-90594

 MC-94060 – Equipping armor/elytra through inventory or dispenser doesn't play sounds – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-277945 – Incorrect verb form in "Elytra swooshes" subtitle – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-90212

 MC-100008 – Elytra and riptide hitbox is too close to the feet – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 MC-97190 – While gliding into water or lava, player continues gliding – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "Learning To Fly"     – Minecraft.net.

 "Glide Mini Game on Consoles Tomorrow"     – Minecraft.net, March 23, 2017.

 "Mini Game Masters Glide onto Console"     – Minecraft.net, March 28, 2017.

 "Part of the tradeoff of having an Elytra is it takes up half your armor."     – Minecraft Feedback, July 12, 2018.

External links
Taking Inventory: Elytra – Minecraft.net on December 14, 2019
Navigation