This article is about the block.   For the book variant, see Enchanted Book.   For the mechanic that augments powers on tools, armor, weapons, and books, see Enchanting.  For information on how the game chooses which enchantments are applied when using the enchanting table, see Enchanting mechanics.  For other uses, see Table.

Enchanting Table

Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

Renewable

No (except via vault)

Stackable

Yes (64)

Tool

Blast resistance

1,200

Hardness

5

Luminous

Yes (7)

Transparent

Yes

Waterloggable

JE: NoBE: Yes

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

No

Map color

 28 COLOR_RED

Note block instrument

Bass Drum

{
    "title": "Enchanting Table",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "No ((link to Renewable resource#Vault article, displayed as except via vault))",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png: Sprite image for Wooden Pickaxe in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|A wooden pickaxe or better is required to mine this block)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "1,200",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "5",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (7)",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Waterlogging article, displayed as Waterloggable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: rgb(153, 51, 51); border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> 28 COLOR<wbr/>_RED</span>",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Bass Drum",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Enchanting Table",
        "Enchanting Table BE"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Enchanting Table.gif",
        "Enchantment Table BE.gif"
    ]
}

An enchanting table is a block used to spend experience and lapis lazuli to apply enchantments to tools, armor and books. Surrounding it with up to fifteen bookshelves increases both its enchanting power and level requirement.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Crafting

2 Usage

2.1 Enchanting

2.1.1 Mysterious text

2.2 Light source
2.3 Custom name
2.4 Piston interactivity

3 Sounds

3.1 Generic
3.2 Unique

4 Data values

4.1 ID
4.2 Block data

5 Achievements
6 Advancements
7 History

7.1 Development
7.2 Java Edition
7.3 Bedrock Edition
7.4 Legacy Console Edition
7.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
7.6 Data history

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Renders
10.2 Textures
10.3 Screenshots
10.4 Development images
10.5 In other media

11 References
12 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
An enchanting table requires a pickaxe to be mined, in which case it drops itself. If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.

Block

Enchanting Table

Hardness

5

Tool

Breaking time (sec)

Default

25

Wooden

3.75

Stone

1.9

Copper

1.5

Iron

1.25

Diamond

0.95

Netherite

0.85

Golden

0.65

OptionsEfficiency000Haste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

 These durations ignore any other influential factors (e.g., Mining Fatigue) and are measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Mining efficiency.

Crafting

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Book +Diamond +Obsidian

Usage



This section is missing information about: At what rate does the book rotate when not in use? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

The enchanting table is 3⁄4 of a block high.
Despite being made mostly of obsidian, the enchanting table is not immune to destruction by the ender dragon.

Enchanting



See Enchanting table mechanics for more detailed information on how to use the enchanting table. 
See Enchanting for more technical information about how enchanting and enchantments work.

Enchanting interface in Java Edition
The enchanting table's main purpose is to enchant items, consuming experience levels and lapis lazuli in the process. The table can enchant the following items, as long as they are not already enchanted:

Some tools: pickaxe, shovel, axe, hoe, and fishing rod
All pieces of player armor: helmet, chestplate, leggings and boots
Some weapons: sword, spear, bow, crossbow, mace and trident
A book, turning it into an enchanted book
Many other items can instead be enchanted using an anvil and an appropriate enchanted book.

Enchanting interface in Bedrock Edition
An item can be enchanted by using an enchanting table, then placing an item in the item slot and any amount of lapis lazuli in its dedicated slot (though only three at most are needed for one enchantment). Upon placing the item to be enchanted, three (pseudo)randomized options appear on the right of the GUI. The glyphs here do not affect the enchantment, but hovering over a presented enchantment shows one enchantment to be applied (on mobile devices, the player can tap an enchantment before putting in the lapis lazuli or hold the enchantment before release). The only choices available have a level requirement equal to or below the player's current level and a lapis lazuli requirement equal to or below the number of lapis lazuli placed in the table. Each option imbues the item with a randomized set of enchantments that are dependent on the number of experience levels required (e.g. a level 10 enchantment can give a pickaxe the "Efficiency II" enchantment); the actual level cost and the number of lapis lazuli required have no effect.
Although the player must have at least the level requirement to get an enchantment, the number of levels that the player is charged is the same as the lapis lazuli requirement. For example, if the third enchantment listed is a level 30 enchantment, the player must have at least 30 levels, while paying only 3 levels and 3 lapis lazuli.
The level requirement influences the quantity, type, and level of enchantments instilled in the item, with a higher experience level generally resulting in more and/or higher-level enchantments. Nevertheless, there is a significant random factor, and even a level 30 enchantment (the maximum) doesn't guarantee more than one enchantment, or even that enchantments are "maximum strength" — a level 30 enchantment can still yield Fortune II or Efficiency III alone, for example.

One-block tall maximal enchanting library
To increase the enchantment level, bookshelves should be placed next to the enchanting table while keeping one block of air, or a replaceable block between them. Most types of blocks being between the enchanting table and the bookshelves — even transparent blocks like torches — prevents the table from connecting with the bookshelves. To gain access to the previously mentioned level 30 enchantments, a total of 15 bookshelves need to be placed around the enchanting table. See the enchanting mechanics page for more detailed information on this.

Mysterious text
Glyphs flowing from the bookshelves animation.
In the user interface, text can be seen on each enchantment button. This text is written in the Standard Galactic Alphabet. Particles of letters from this font are also present when an enchanting table is close to a bookshelf. These cannot be seen if "particles" in the video settings is set to "minimal".

The words present on the buttons will be multiple of the following:

the
elder
scrolls
klaatu
berata
niktu
xyzzy
bless
curse
light
darkness
fire
air
earth
water
hot
dry
cold
wet
ignite
snuff
embiggen
twist
shorten
stretch
fiddle
destroy
imbue
galvanize
enchant
free
limited
range
of
towards
inside
sphere
cube
self
other
ball
mental
physical
grow
shrink
demon
elemental
spirit
animal
creature
beast
humanoid
undead
fresh
stale
phnglui‌[Java Edition  only]
mglwnafh‌[Java Edition  only]
cthulhu‌[Java Edition  only]
rlyeh‌[Java Edition  only]
wgahnagl‌[Java Edition  only]
fhtagn‌[Java Edition  only]
baguette‌[Java Edition  only]

Three to five words are chosen from the list and appended to each other, then displayed. Although sometimes the words chosen accidentally refer to mobs, the words chosen are random and purely cosmetic; they have no relation to the enchantments to be applied to the item and are not saved on the enchanted item (meaning they say nothing about the enchantment's identity), and they are displayed only in the enchanting table.

Light source
Enchanting tables emit a light level of 7.

Custom name
By default, the GUI of an enchanting table is labeled "Enchant", but this name can be customized by naming the enchanting table in an anvil before placing it or by changing the CustomName tag using the /data command‌[Java Edition  only].

Piston interactivity
Enchanting tables cannot be pushed by pistons. They also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons.

Sounds
Generic
Java Edition:

v
t
e stone sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.stone.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.816​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.stone.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.816​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.stone.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.stone.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.50.7516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.stone.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.016
Bedrock Edition:

v
t
e normal sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.stonesubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.8–1.0​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedplace.stonesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.8–1.0​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.stonesubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.27 0.5​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.31.0​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.121.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.221.0
 MCPE-169612 – Many blocks make slightly different sounds to stone

Unique
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Enchanting Table usedBlocksWhen an enchanting table enchants an itemblock.enchantment_table.use​​subtitles.block.enchantment_table.use​​​1.00.9–1.016
 MC-218109

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Enchanting Table usedBlocksWhen an enchanting table enchants an itemblock.enchanting_table.usesubtitles.block.enchanting_table.use​1.01.0
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierForm
Translation key Enchanting Tableenchanting_tableBlock & Item
block.minecraft.enchanting_table
NameIdentifier
 Block entityenchanting_table

Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key Enchanting Tableenchanting_table116Block & Giveable ItemIdentical
tile.enchanting_table.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Available with /give command.

 The block's direct item form has the same ID as the block.

NameSavegame ID
 Block entityEnchantTable

Block data
An enchanting table has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition:

See also: Block entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Block entity data
Tags common to all block entities see Template:Nbt inherit/blockentity/template
Tags common to all objects that can be renamed see Template:Nbt inherit/nameable/template

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherEnchanterConstruct an Enchanting Table.Pick up an enchanting table from a crafting table output.20Bronze
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)EnchanterEnchant an item at an Enchanting TableInsert an item in an enchanting table, then apply an enchantment.
History
Development
September 30, 2011
First mentions of the enchantment table.September 30, 2011
 Notch posted first picture of the enchantment table, they were originally made with cobblestone instead of obsidian.September 30, 2011
 Notch posted second picture of the updated enchantment table.October 1, 2011
The first image of the enchantment screen are revealed, with enchantments written in the Standard Galactic Alphabet. The first enchantment translates into "Well Played Internets You Are Good", the second translates into "These Names Will Be Random And Confusing", and the third translates to "Each Spell Costs Experience Levels". The Standard Galactic Alphabet or SGA was originally created by Tom Hall for use in the Commander Keen series of computer games.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
 Added enchantment tables. They have no name in the inventory.
The maximum enchantment level is 15.
Armor, axes, flint and steel, hoes, pickaxes, shears, shovels, and swords can be enchanted using an enchantment table.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Enchantment tables are now named "Enchantment Table" in the inventory.
Enchantment tables now require bookshelves to get maximum enchantments, up to level 50 with 30 bookshelves.
Hoes, flint and steel, and shears can no longer be enchanted using an enchantment table.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
Enchantment tables now take time to mine​[more information needed].1.112w01a
Decreased the randomness of enchantment tables.release
Bows can now be enchanted in the enchantment table.1.2.112w05a
Enchanting no longer requires experience in Creative mode.1.3.112w15a
⇧ Shift + clicking can now be used to put items in enchantment tables.12w22a
The maximum enchantment power has been lowered from 50 to 30; as a result, the amount of bookshelves required to reach the maximum enchantment power has lowered from 30 to 15.

The third enchantment slot in an enchantment table is always set at the highest possible level (depending on the amount of bookshelves), instead of being random like the other slots (requiring clicking the item in and out many times to get a maximum level enchantment).1.4.612w49a
The player can now enchant books to then be used to enchant a tool.1.7.213w36a
Fishing rods can now be enchanted in the enchantment table.13w39a
Books can now gain multiple enchantments when enchanted in an enchantment table.1.814w02a
 Enchanting has received a major overhaul where there is now a secondary cost, which is lapis lazuli.

When enchanting an item, one enchantment now appears in the tooltip when selecting an enchantment (e.g Looting III?...).

Level 5 enchants (Sharpness, Power, Smite and Bane of Arthropods) can now be applied without the use of an anvil.

The enchantments the player would get on a specific kind of tool do not change until the enchantment happens.1.1016w20a
Added a sound for enchanting an item in the enchantment table.1.1217w13a
Now displays its name when hovering over it.

Closing the enchanting interface now returns the items from the lapis slot and enchanting slot to the inventory, if space allows instead of dropping the items on the ground.1.1317w47a
"Enchantment Table" has been renamed to "Enchanting Table".18w02a
Hoes can now be enchanted in the enchanting table.1.1418w43a
 The texture of enchanting tables has been changed.18w44a
 The texture of enchanting tables has been changed, as the texture of obsidian has been changed.18w46a
Enchanting tables are no longer transparent from the bottom.18w50a
 The texture of enchanting tables has been changed, as the texture of obsidian has been changed, once again.
The enchanting table's bottom texture has now been made identical to that of obsidian - previously it had a defined border.1.1620w21a
The capitalization of the subtitle for using an enchanting table was changed from "Enchanting table used" to "Enchanting Table used".1.1821w37a
Enchanting tables now provide a light level of 7, to match Bedrock Edition.21w41a
 The texture of the blank slot for lapis lazuli has been changed, removing part of its details.pre5
 The texture of the blank slot for lapis lazuli has been changed to be a grayscale lapis lazuli.1.18.222w07a
	Bookshelf detection method changed. Previously, both the block at the level of the enchanting table and the layer above needed to be air, or the enchanting table was blocked. Additionally, bookshelves 2 across 1 over changed from being blocked by the corner block to being blocked by the edge block.1.2023w14a
A replaceable block between enchanting table and bookshelves no longer invalidates bonuses.1.20.223w31a
 Reverted the texture of lapis slot to the texture before 1.18-pre5, to make the consistency with smithing table.26.1snap11
 When set to display as a block display entity, as a TNT entity's displayed state, displayed in a minecart, held by an enderman or placed as an item in a copper golem's saddle slot, the book will now render on the enchanting table (although in a permanently closed state). Previously, no book would render.

Falling block entities with the enchanting table's block ID still will not display a book, however.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.12.1build 1
 Added enchantment tables.

Enchantment tables emit a light level of 12.

Enchantment tables can be crafted in the stonecutter.

Added enchantment tables to the Creative inventory.build 11
Enchanting tables are now craftable in the crafting table, instead of the stonecutter.Bedrock Edition?
Hoes can no longer be enchanted in enchanting tables.1.4.0beta 1.2.13.11
When Experimental Gameplay is enabled, tridents can now be enchanted.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
 The texture of enchantment tables has been changed.1.16.0beta 1.16.0.57
Hoes can now be enchanted with Efficiency, Fortune and Silk Touch.1.17.30beta 1.17.20.20
Enchantment tables now emit a light level of 7, instead of 12.1.19.30Preview 1.19.30.20
Added a sound for enchanting an item in the enchantment table.1.21.30Preview 1.21.30.22
Changed name from "Enchantment Table" to "Enchanting Table" to match Java Edition.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.24
Enchanting tables drop themselves only if mined using a pickaxe, matching Java Edition.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU7CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
 Added enchanting tables.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Enchanting now consumes lapis lazuli.

Enchanting has been re-balanced.

Enchanted books can now receive multiple enchantments at once.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Added a sound for enchanting an item in the enchantment table.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Closing the enchanting interface now returns the items from the lapis slot and enchanting slot to the inventory, if space allows instead of dropping the items on the ground.   1.90
 The texture of enchanting tables has been changed.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
 Added enchanting tables.
Data history
Java Edition1.814w18a
Enchantment tables with numerical metadata variants 1 through 15, which are inaccessible through normal gameplay, now have no model   rather than appearing identical to enchantment tables.14w26a
Block metadata has been completely removed from this snapshot onward with the introduction of block states. As this block never used block metadata at all prior to this version, fifteen unused, inaccessible metadata variants of it have been completely removed from the game:


   DV
   Description


0
Enchanting table

1-15
Inaccessible "boring" variants of enchantment tables
1.1116w32a
The block entity ID for the enchantment table has been changed from EnchantTable to enchanting_table.1.1317w47a
Prior to The Flattening, the enchanting table's numeral ID was 116.
Issues
Issues relating to "Enchanting Table" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Enchanting tables are midway between slabs and full blocks height-wise, so they could be potentially used as a TNT cannon's range-amplifier instead of slabs or trapdoors.
The enchanting table always opens its book toward the player, even when the player is invisible.
On the enchantment screen, captions in the Standard Galactic Alphabet includes several in-jokes:
On October 1, 2011, Notch tweeted an image of the enchantment screen, with enchantments. The first enchantment translates into "Well Played Internets You Are Good", the second translates into "These Names Will Be Random And Confusing", and the third translates to "Each Spell Costs Experience Levels".
Three of the possible words for enchantments are "the", "elder", and "scrolls". This is likely a joke at Bethesda, creator of The Elder Scrolls series and whose parent company, Zenimax, attempted to sue Mojang for the name of their game Scrolls.
The words "klaatu", "berata", and "niktu" are a (misspelled) reference to "Klaatu barada nikto", a phrase that originates from the 1951 movie The Day the Earth Stood Still and has been since used as a reference in many other movies, cartoons and games.
Similarly, "Xyzzy" is a magic spell in the game Colossal Cave Adventure and has been used in several other games as an Easter Egg or cheat code.
The word "embiggen" is a fictional word coined by The Simpsons quote: "A Noble Spirit Embiggens the Smallest Man".
The words "phnglui", "mglwnafh", "cthulhu", "rlyeh", "wgahnagl", and "fhtagn" are a quote from H. P. Lovecraft's short story The Call of Cthulhu. Said quote is a prayer in the Cthulhu mythos. The complete and correct quote is "Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn", which translates to "In his house at R'lyeh, dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."
Of the list of words that the enchanting table uses, none of the words contain the letters "J" or "Q". Although they are not used in the words, they do have a symbol attached to them, and can be seen moving from the bookshelf and the table.
Gallery
Renders



			The book model, animated.


Textures



			Color coded texture for the book model.



			Color code legend for book model texture guide.


Screenshots



			The enchanting table receiving knowledge from nearby bookshelves.



			The GUI of the enchanting table in Bedrock Edition (top = no item, bottom = with item hovering on the second line).



			A newly enchanted sword.



			An enchanting setup with an enchanting table, bookshelves, a grindstone, and an anvil.



			An enchanting setup with lava, magma blocks and soul lanterns.



			A modified version of the same setup, this time with cave vines and amethyst clusters.


Development images



			The first image of an enchanting table.



			The second image of an enchanting table.



			The first image of an enchanting table's interface.



			The first image of Enchanted equipment.


In other media



			Efe looking at an enchanting table.



			A render of an enchanting table from A Minecraft Movie Live Event.


References

 MC-177521 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "How does enchanting work in Minecraft? Well, you open a magical book and pick a random spell, not quite sure knowing what it will do. MAGIC!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 30, 2011

 "Working on Item Enchantments. It costs experience points. It's totally random. It has three tiers. What does an enchantment table look like?"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 30, 2011

 MC-183842

 MC-259401 – Lapis lazuli icons in enchanting table and smithing table are inconsistent – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-308629

 "An enchantment table"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 1, 2011

Navigation