This page documents the layer-by-layer composition of a given generated structure, terrain feature, or feature. 

The End City Ship can be found near the End City Tower which contains an elytra and few loot chests.
In Java the path to load the structure from a structure block is minecraft:end_city/ship.

Contents

1 Dimensions
2 Materials
3 Block orientation and instructions
4 Blueprints

Dimensions
The end ship is 24 blocks high, 29 blocks long and 13 blocks wide.

Materials

Name

Total

Stack

Brewing Stand

1

Chest

2

Dragon Head

1

Elytra

1

End Rod

6

End Stone Bricks

36

Item Frame

1

Ladder

14

Magenta Stained Glass

7

Obsidian

26

Potion of Healing II

2

Purpur Block

557

8 + 45 blocks

Purpur Pillar

97

1 + 33 blocks

Purpur Slab

7

Purpur Stairs

175

2 + 47 blocks

Shulker

3

Block orientation and instructions

Layer(s)
Block orientation and instructions

1
13 pillars, oriented front/back.

2
The pillars are oriented front/back.
The stairs outside the ship are upside-down, facing the ship.

3
The pillars are oriented front/back.
The stairs outside the ship are upside-down, facing the ship.

4
The pillar in the middle is oriented up/down, and the pillars at the front are oriented front/back.
The stairs outside the ship are upside-down, facing the ship.
The stairs inside the ship are facing the back.

5
The pillar in the middle is oriented up/down.
The chests are each oriented with their hinges against the front of the ship.
The stairs outside the ship are upside-down, facing the ship.
The stairs inside the ship are facing the back.

6
The pillar in the middle is oriented up/down.  The pillars at the bow of the ship point toward/away from the direction of the ship.
The item frame contains an elytra, and is attached to the block at the front of the ship.
The stairs outside the ship are all facing the ship; all are upside-down except the 3rd and 6th from the back (along the sides) and the 3rd and the 6th from the left (along the bottom).  The four on the corners of the deck area are "outside-corner" stairs.
The stairs inside the ship are facing the back.

7
All pillars point up/down, except those at the bow of the ship, which point toward/away from the direction of the ship.
The stairs are oriented to ascend up into the purpur block area.
The end rods in the back point up/down, and the one in front points backward.

8
Pillars below the central glass all point up/down; pillars above the central glass are all pointing toward/away from the glass
The stairs are oriented to ascend up into the purpur block area.
The brewing stand contains two potions of healing.

9
Dragon head is pointing away from the ship, and the stair is facing the dragon head.
Pillars within the ship body by the stair are oriented toward the stair, and the stair is facing the pillars.
Central pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar.
The stairs interior to the ship on the right-hand side are right-side-up, but facing downward (toward the end stone bricks).
All other stairs are right-side-up, and facing the interior of the ship.
The four stairs in the 9th and 11th rows from the top are "inside-corner" stairs.

10
Pillars by the stair are oriented toward the stair, stair is facing the pillars.
End rods are pointing up.
Central pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar.
Stairs along the outside of the deck are all facing inward.  Stairs on the four corners are all "outside corner" stairs.
On the bottom row of stairs, the 3rd & 4th, 7th, 10th & 11th stairs (counting from the left) are right-side-up, and along the sides, the 3rd & 4th, 7th & 8th (counting from the bottom) are right-side-up.  The two stairs off-center toward the top-right of the deck are right-side up.
The rest of the stairs are upside-down.

11
Pillars by the stair are oriented toward the stair, stair is facing the pillars.
Central pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar.
Pillar on the deck is oriented up/down.  Stairs along the outside of the deck are all facing inward.  Stairs along the inside of the "bottom" are facing outward.
The 2 stairs on the ends of the 4 stairs on the top are "inside corner" stairs.  The 2 stairs on the ends of the 5 stairs on the bottom are "outside corner" stairs.

12
Pillars by the stair are oriented toward the stair, stair is facing the pillars.
Central pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar

13
Slab is upside-down, pillars by the stair are oriented toward the stair, stair is facing the pillars.
Central pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar

14–22
Pillar is oriented up/down, ladder is against the pillar

23
Pillar is oriented up/down

Blueprints

Layer 1

Layer 2

Layer 3

Layer 4

Layer 5

Layer 6

Layer 7

Layer 8

Layer 9

Layer 10

Layer 11

Layer 12

Layer 13

Layers 14–20

Layer 21

Layer 22

Layer 23

Layer 24