"Dragon" redirects here.  For other uses, see Dragon (disambiguation).
 Not to be confused with RenderDragon.

Ender Dragon

Health points

200HP × 100

Behavior

Hostile

Mob type

Monster

Attackstrength

Melee:
Peaceful: 0HP (but still performs attack animation)Easy: 6HPNormal: 10HPHard: 15HP × 7.5

 Wings:Easy: 3.5HP × 1.75
Normal: 5HP
Hard: 7.5HP × 3.75

 Dragon's breath:
3HP per second

 Dragon fireball:
6HP per second

Hitbox size

Height: 8 blocksWidth: 16 blocks

Speed

0.7

Spawn

The End

{
    "title": "Ender Dragon",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "200<span class=\"hidden-alt-text\">HP</span><span class=\"nowrap mc-hearts\"><span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"1  heart\">(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)</span> × 100</span>",
            "label": "(link to Health article, displayed as Health points)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Hostile",
            "label": "Behavior"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EntitySprite monster.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Monster|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Monster article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Monster</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob type article, displayed as Mob type)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Attack<br/>strength"
        },
        {
            "field": "Height: 8 blocks<br>Width: 16 blocks",
            "label": "(link to Hitbox article, displayed as Hitbox size)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.7",
            "label": "(link to Attribute#Movement_speed article, displayed as Speed)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BiomeSprite the-end.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=The End|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to The End article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">The End</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob spawning article, displayed as Spawn)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Ender Dragon Spawn Egg"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Ender Dragon.gif"
    ]
}



 There is a related tutorial page for this topic! 
See Tutorial:Defeating the ender dragon.

The ender dragon is a giant flying hostile boss mob found when first entering the End. It is the largest naturally spawning mob in the game. Its attacks involve charging at the player and shooting fireballs that create damaging effect clouds. The ender dragon can be re-summoned by placing four End crystals around the exit portal.
Defeating the ender dragon the first time activates the exit portal which allows safe return to the Overworld. Each time it is defeated, an End gateway is created on the outskirts of the central island which can be used to teleport to the outer End islands.

Contents

1 Spawning

1.1 Initial spawning
1.2 Re-summoning

2 Death and drops
3 Behavior

3.1 Movement
3.2 Attacking

4 Dragon Fireball
5 Sounds
6 Data values

6.1 ID
6.2 Entity data
6.3 Command details

7 Achievements
8 Advancements
9 Videos
10 History

10.1 Announcement
10.2 Java Edition
10.3 Bedrock Edition
10.4 Legacy Console Edition
10.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
10.6 Data history

11 Issues
12 Trivia

12.1 Notch-related

13 Gallery

13.1 Screenshots
13.2 Mojang screenshots
13.3 Textures
13.4 Development images
13.5 In other media

13.5.1 Merchandise

14 Notes
15 References
16 External links
17 Navigation

Spawning
Initial spawning
The ender dragon spawns 20 game ticks (1 second) after an entity first arrives in the End, along with the bedrock frame for the exit portal.

Re-summoning
How to arrange End crystals on the exit portal to respawn the ender dragon. The exact placement does not matter, as long as one End crystal is placed on each side of the exit portal.
Players can re-summon the dragon by placing four End crystals on the edges of the exit portal, one on each side. If the exit portal is ever destroyed, End crystals can be placed on obsidian blocks placed where the bedrock of the original exit portal once stood. In Bedrock Edition, the crystals can be placed one block outward, in all or either of the four directions.



			The End crystals do not need to be aligned to the central pillar.​[more information needed]



			The End crystals may be placed on obsidian instead of bedrock.


When it is re-summoned, the four End crystals point to the tops of each pillar, setting off a series of explosions that resets the obsidian pillars, iron bars, and End crystals. The top of each pillar explodes, destroying any player-placed blocks. Eventually, all of the End crystals point at the coordinates of (0.0, 128, 0.0) and the ender dragon spawns there. The four crystals placed around the exit portal then explode. The whole sequence lasts a bit over 30 seconds (exactly 604 ticks).
If any of the End crystals placed around the exit portal are destroyed, the summoning sequence is canceled.
During the summoning sequence, the End crystals on top of the End spikes cannot be destroyed.
If the player does not pick up the dragon egg and starts to re-summon the dragon, the dragon egg disappears.
If the dragon goes through an End gateway, another immediately spawns at (0, 128, 0) while the other dragon flies to (0, 128, 0).

Death and drops
After the ender dragon is slain for the first time, the following events take place:

First, it moves to the highest dragon-immune block in the (0,0) column, which is typically the top of the exit portal. During this final move, the dragon can still damage other entities, despite being "dead".
Once it reaches (0,0), it changes model and slowly ascends, its wings and body becoming more tattered until it disappears in beams of light erupting from its center. A loud sound, Ender dragon death.ogg is played. This takes 10 seconds. During this ascension, the following occurs:
Starting 7.7 seconds (154 game ticks) after the dragon begins ascending, a total of 12000XP experience points (ten drops of 960 and one drop of 2400) appear out of the dragon's body (one by one, per tick) — enough to bring a player from no experience all the way up to level 68. Some of the experience orbs can drop into the exit portal and can then be retrieved in the Overworld.
Shortly thereafter, exactly 10 seconds (200 game ticks) into the animation, the following occurs:
The bedrock structure fills in with End portal blocks to become the exit portal, enabling the player to transport back to the Overworld and respawn at their spawn point, or at world spawn if they didn't set a spawn point. If the exit portal doesn't exist at the expected location (for example, if it was destroyed in Creative Mode), a new one is created there.
A dragon egg appears above the island's central bedrock structure. If a block exists right above the center of the central bedrock structure, then the dragon egg spawns 1 block above the highest block at (0,0). If the highest block is at the height limit, then the dragon egg does not spawn.
An End gateway portal is generated 96 blocks away from the exit portal always floating at Y=75.
When a re-summoned ender dragon is slain, the same events occur, except that only 500XP experience points are dropped, and if there are already 20 End gateway portals, no more are generated. In Java Edition, the dragon egg appears only the first time the ender dragon is slain; in Bedrock Edition, it appears the first and second time.

Behavior
See also: Tutorial:Defeating the Ender Dragon

During the battle with the ender dragon, unique music called "Boss" plays, the edges of the screen darken, black fog appears, and chunks around the exit portal are constantly loaded regardless of simulation distance. These happen as long as there is at least one player within a Euclidean distance of 192 blocks from (0.0, 128, 0.0).
The ender dragon has a light purple health bar that appears at the top of the player's screen. Its health is restored by nearby End crystals at the rate of 1HP every 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds), indicated by a white beam connecting the dragon and the crystal. Destroying an End crystal that is actively healing the dragon causes 10HP damage to it.
The ender dragon only takes damage from explosions and players (including commands). The ender dragon is immune to fire, falling, drowning, freezing, poisoning, lightning, and the void; when perched, it is also immune to arrows (but not firework rockets shot from a crossbow). The dragon is immune to all status effects, except for Instant Damage coming from a player (via a thrown splash or lingering potion of Harming).
It also reduces all incoming damage to it by ~75% unless the attack is hitting its head, giving it an effective 800HP × 400 if no attacks are dealt against its head. In Java Edition, due to a bug, the ender dragon's head has the same damage reduction as the rest of its hitboxes, giving no benefit to attacking its head.​[until: JE 26.3] This uses the formula original damage4+min⁡(1,original damage), which adjusts the value toward 4⁄3 (HP × 0.667). In Bedrock Edition, this damage reduction is temporarily removed when a projectile hits its head. The ender dragon's hitbox, especially its wings, is larger than the ender dragon itself. This causes players to be knocked back even when not standing too close. The damage modification is applied to all damage types the dragon takes, including starvation and void damage, which are only possible with /damage.
In Java Edition, the ender dragon is immune to critical hits, since it can be applied only to living entities. While the ender dragon is a living entity, the parts that are damaged are actually non-mob entities. Suffocation is completely non-applicable, as it either phases through or immediately destroys any block it touches.

The green hitboxes of the ender dragon.
By using the F3 + B shortcut, the dragon's bounding box appears.‌[Java Edition  only] However, it cannot be damaged at just any spot in this large volume: eight green sub-hitboxes are also shown, which indicate the locations where the dragon can take damage: the tail (three hitboxes), body, head, neck, and right and left wings.
Name tags cannot be used on an ender dragon, because it is not possible to interact directly with it, only with its parts (green hitboxes), which are not living entities.
Ender dragons killed by /kill‌[Java Edition  only] or from damage belonging to the type self_destruct, and was not spawned from the player‌[Bedrock Edition  only], will skip their death animation and the exit portal will immediately open; in Bedrock Edition, if the dragon was killed by /kill it will stay in the same place and play its death animation there instead of flying to the exit portal.
The purple eyes and mouth of the ender dragon are emissive with Vibrant Visuals enabled.

Movement
The ender dragon is a flying mob and cannot stand on the ground. It flies around the End's main island.
The dragon can pass through all blocks and destroys most of them, but it can still be affected by flowing water, lava, and bubble columns. Blocks not destroyed are those that naturally generate on the central End island, such as End stone, and those that are intended to be indestructible, such as bedrock.
The following blocks will not be destroyed if the ender dragon passes through them:

Barrier
Bedrock
 Command blocks
Crying obsidian
End stone
End portal
End portal frame
End gateway
Fire
Iron bars
Jigsaw
Light block
Moving piston
Obsidian
Reinforced deepslate
Respawn anchor
Soul fire
Structure block
 Test blocks‌[JE  only]
Test instance block‌[JE  only]
Allow‌[BE  only]
Deny‌[BE  only]
Border‌[BE  only]
In Java Edition, these blocks are marked under the dragon_immune tag, with the exception of light blocks and fire, which are marked as dragon_transparent.
Destroyed blocks are not dropped, but containers other than shulker boxes and ender chests drop their contents.

Attacking
The dragon performing its toxic breath attack.
Arrows indicate possible phase transitions in Java Edition. Circles are triggered by external events and will override the current phase.
The dragon never targets any entity but the player, although other mobs may turn hostile to the dragon when hit, and the dragon may sometimes retaliate against other mobs if it takes damage to a projectile. Any entities hit by its wings are dealt 5HP damage (or 10HP damage if hit by its head), and in Java Edition, are thrown into the air, sometimes to fatal heights or off the island. Neither of these effects is applied for 1⁄2 second after the dragon takes damage.
The ender dragon has four main states of behavior:

Guarding
The dragon begins in this state, circling the ring of obsidian pillars on either the outside if there are still End crystals or the inside if the crystals are destroyed.
With each crystal's destruction, it takes damage and there is an increased chance of the dragon switching states.
Targeting
Whenever the dragon finds itself less than 10 blocks or more than 150 blocks from its current target, it attempts to choose a new target. When damaged it targets a point just behind itself, causing it to turn away and choose a new target.
Strafing
Upon the destruction of an End crystal, the dragon switches to strafing. As soon as it is within 64 blocks, it shoots a fireball at the player.
The dragon resumes circling after this state.
Diving‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
The dragon dives onto the target player's position, taken at the start of the dive. The dragon never seems to perform this attack mid-flight in game, it only seems to do it when exiting the portal.
The dragon resumes circling after this state, whether or not it actually hit the player.
Does not happen on Java Edition due to a bug.
Perching
While guarding and the dragon has reached the end of the path, it has 1 in (3 + crystals alive) chance (~7.7% up to 33%)​[more information needed for Bedrock Edition] to go to the exit portal structure (approaching from the side opposite the player if possible) and lands on the highest block of the coordinates (X=0, Z=0), up to (Y=101).‌[Bedrock Edition  only] The dragon circles above the exit structure while slowly descending in Java Edition, or dive from the obsidian pillars in Bedrock Edition. If there is no block in (X=0, Z=0) the dragon flies down to (Y=0) and "perches" there in Java Edition, or freezes right when it switches to perching in Bedrock Edition. The dragon is immune to arrows and thrown tridents in this state; they catch fire and bounce off.
Dragon's breath
After 1.25 seconds, if a player is within 20 blocks of the exit portal structure, the dragon roars and use its 3-second breath attack, damaging players similarly to a lingering potion of Harming. This does not happen on Peaceful difficulty in Java Edition. An area of visible particles in the shape of a horizontal disc one block tall and 5 to 6 blocks in diameter appears where the breath attack strikes, either on the ground or floating in the air, at whatever point the breath attack struck a block. The harming effect zone where the player takes damage is confined to a smaller area in the center this visible cloud, covering about 3 to 4 blocks.
The harming effect portion of the purple clouds emitted from the dragon's breath attack can be collected in a glass bottle to obtain dragon's breath. Each bottle of dragon's breath collected removes one block from the lingering damage zone of the breath attack. The visible clouds remain for 3 seconds whether the dragons breath is bottled or not. By rapidly collecting all of the harmful blocks, usually around three, even a direct hit from the breath attack can be mostly and even entirely negated before the player suffers any damage.
Charge
If the player is not near the portal within 5 seconds of the dragon's landing, it charges at the closest player within 150 blocks with a line of sight from the dragon's head.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] In Java Edition line of sight is not required.
Take-off
After four consecutive breath attacks, or if the dragon fails to locate a player within 150 blocks, it takes off from its perch. In Java Edition, it always takes off in Peaceful difficulty, making it difficult to land melee hits.
The dragon resumes circling after this state.
Escape
If cumulative damage taken while perched exceeds 50HP × 25, the dragon takes off and resets the damage accumulator. The accumulator is not reset if it does not take enough damage.
The dragon resumes circling after this state.
When the dragon takes a fatal blow, it flies toward the exit portal structure before dying, unless it cannot find it within 150 blocks, or it is inside blocks.

Dragon Fireball

Dragon Fireball

Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

Hitbox size

Height: 1 blockWidth: 1 block

{
    "title": "Dragon Fireball",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Height: 1 block<br>Width: 1 block",
            "label": "(link to Hitbox article, displayed as Hitbox size)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Dragon Fireball JE2.png",
        "Dragon Fireball BE.png"
    ]
}

Dragon fireballs are special fireballs that the ender dragon fires. The ender dragon always fires one dragon fireball for each End crystal destroyed by the player, and also fires them periodically. Unlike ghast fireballs, they cannot be deflected and do not deal any damage or knockback on impact with an entity. Instead, they deposit purple effect clouds across the ground that damage players the same way a lingering potion of Harming II does. This means that the ender dragon's fireballs deal magic damage, which ignores any damage reduction from the player's armor. However, its damage is reduced by the Protection enchantment. The purple effect cloud's hitbox slowly grows larger in diameter until it disappears.
As with its close-ranged breath attack, the purple clouds can be bottled to obtain the dragon's breath.
Unlike lingering potions of Harming, the effect cloud does not shrink when affecting mobs.

Sounds
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Dragon roarsHostile MobsRandomlyentity.ender_dragon.ambientsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.ambient​5.00.8–1.216​Dragon growlsHostile MobsWhile an ender dragon is on its perchentity.ender_dragon.growlsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.growl​2.50.8–1.116​Dragon growlsHostile MobsWhile an ender dragon is being resummoned entity.ender_dragon.growlsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.growl​64.00.8–1.116​Dragon diesHostile MobsWhen an ender dragon dies entity.ender_dragon.deathsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.death​5.01.016 (technical) / ∞ (effective)​Dragon flapsHostile MobsPeriodically depending on the ender dragon's speedentity.ender_dragon.flapsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.flap​5.00.8–1.116​Dragon hurtsHostile MobsWhen an ender dragon is damagedentity.ender_dragon.hurtsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.hurt​5.00.8–1.216​Dragon shootsHostile MobsWhen an ender dragon shoots a fireballentity.ender_dragon.shootsubtitles.entity.ender_dragon.shoot​10.00.8–1.216​ExplosionHostile MobsWhen a dragon fireball impactsentity.dragon_fireball.explodesubtitles.entity.generic.explode​1.00.9–1.016
 While the pillars are preparing to be resummoned, it occurs at 0 seconds, 2.5–2.6 seconds, and 4.75–5 seconds. When the ender dragon is about to be summoned, it occurs 5–4.75 seconds before and 2–0 seconds before.

 Does not trigger at all if the /gamerule globalSoundEvents is false

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Dragon roarsHostile MobsRandomly and randomly while being resummoned, except while the pillars are being rechargedmob.enderdragon.growl​ ?640.00.8–1.2​Dragon diesHostile MobsWhen an ender dragon diesmob.enderdragon.death​ ?640.00.8–1.2​Dragon hurtsHostile MobsWhen an ender dragon is damagedmob.enderdragon.hit​ ?560.00.8–1.2​Dragon flapsHostile MobsPeriodically depending on if the ender dragon is perchingmob.enderdragon.flap​ ?400.00.8–1.2
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierEntity tags
Translation key Ender Dragonender_dragonNone
entity.minecraft.ender_dragon
 Dragon Fireballdragon_fireballimpact_projectiles
entity.minecraft.dragon_fireball
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID
FamilyTranslation key Ender Dragonender_dragon53
dragonmobentity.ender_dragon.name
 Dragon Fireballdragon_fireball79
Noneentity.dragon_fireball.name
Entity data
Ender dragons have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Entity format.
Java Edition:

Main article: Entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Entity data
Tags common to all entities see Template:Nbt inherit/entity/template
Tags common to all mobs see Template:Nbt inherit/mob/template
[Int] DragonDeathTime: Number of ticks the dragon has been dead for. At 150, the dragon begins spawning experience orbs every 5 ticks (first drop at 155). Removes dragon at values 200 and higher. 0 when alive.
[Int] DragonPhase: A number indicating the dragon's current state. 0 means circling. 1 means strafing (preparing to shoot a fireball). 2 means flying to the portal to land (part of transition to landed state). 3 means landing on the portal (part of transition to landed state). 4 means taking off from the portal (part of transition out of landed state). 5 means landed, performing breath attack. 6 means landed, looking for a player for breath attack. 7 means landed, roar before beginning breath attack. 8 means charging player. 9 means flying to portal to die. 10 means hovering (flapping wings while pacing around a fixed point) (default when using the /summon command).
[Float] sitting_damage_recieved: The amount of damage the dragon has received while perched. When this value would become 50 or higher, it is reset to 0 and the dragon ends its perch.

Dragon fireballs have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Entity data
Tags common to all entities see Template:Nbt inherit/entity/template
Tags common to all fireballs see Template:Nbt inherit/fireball/template
Tags common to all projectiles see Template:Nbt inherit/projectile/template

Command details
A dragon fireball spawned by a command (left) and the damage from the explosion it caused (right).
In Java Edition, the /summon ender_dragon command, by default, summons a harmless ender dragon that hovers in place. Setting the DragonPhase tag (by issuing either the /summon ender_dragon ~ ~ ~ {DragonPhase:0} or the /data merge entity <selector> {DragonPhase:0} commands) starts the ender dragon's ordinary behavior, although the health bar does not appear because it is managed by the ender dragon fight status rather than by the dragon entity itself. If spawned away from the center of the map (x=0, z=0), it flies to the center then resumes normal behavior (see #Behavior).

Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherMonster HunterAttack and destroy a monster.
Kill one of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this achievement.15BronzeThe EndKill the Ender DragonEnter the end exit portal.40GoldYou Need a MintCollect dragons [sic] breath in a glass bottleHave a dragon's breath bottle in your inventory.30SilverThe End... Again...Respawn the Ender Dragon—30Silver
Achievements that apply to all mobs:

IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherOverkillDeal nine hearts of damage in a single hit.Damage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have nine hearts of health overall.30BronzeOver-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.20SilverMob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor stands and players also count for this achievement as they are technically mobs.10Bronze

Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Free the EndGood luckKill the ender dragon.If multiple players are involved in the dragon fight, only the player that deals the final blow to the dragon receives the advancement.The Next GenerationHold the Dragon EggHave a dragon egg in the inventory.The End... Again...Respawn the Ender DragonBe within a 192-block radius from the coordinates (0.0, 128, 0.0) when an ender dragon is summoned using End crystals.You Need a MintCollect Dragon's Breath in a Glass BottleHave a bottle of dragon's breath in the inventory.Monster HunterKill any hostile monster
Kill one of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this advancement.Monsters HuntedKill one of every hostile monster
Kill each of these 41 monsters:

Blaze
Bogged
Breeze
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Creaking (by destroying its creaking heart)
Creeper
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Guardian
Hoglin
Husk
Magma Cube
Parched
Phantom
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Ravager
Shulker
Silverfish
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Stray
Vex
Vindicator
Witch
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin

Other mobs may be killed, but are ignored for this advancement.Is It a Plane?Look at the Ender Dragon through a Spyglass—
Advancements that apply to all mobs:

IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)AdventureAdventure, exploration and combatKill any mob, or be killed by any living entity.A Throwaway JokeThrow a Trident at something.Note: Throwing away your only weapon is not a good idea.Hit a mob with a thrown trident.Take AimShoot something with an ArrowUsing a bow or a crossbow, shoot a mob with an arrow, tipped arrow, or spectral arrow.Mob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.ArbalisticKill five unique mobs with one crossbow shotArmor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.Over-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.

Videos





History



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Ender dragon before 19w39a and 19w41a

Announcement
June 14, 2009
Notch believed that Survival mode should have some sort of goal, which he had not yet formulated: "While it could be fun to just see how long you can survive in survival mode, I believe there might be a need for some kind of goal. Make the most money in a month? Kill a big evil mob in the shortest time? I don’t know yet."June 30, 2010
In a video called "Minecraft Flight" posted by Notch on YouTube, he mentioned that dragon lairs may be an addition in the video description.August 31, 2010
Later in an interview on MinecraftCon 2010, Notch hinted at dragons as a possible planned mob. Then, for about one year, there was no more mention of it and dragons solely remained a potential work-in-progress.June 18, 2011
Notch has stated in the past that if dragons are added, they would not be mountable as it would put too much pressure on multiplayer servers.September 1, 2011
Notch stated that "dragons will be added eventually".October 6, 2011
The name "ender dragon" was first made known through a tweet by Notch reading "raqreqentba", which could be decoded using the ROT13 cipher, translating to "enderdragon".October 7, 2011
Notch reveals a screenshot of the "progress so far" on the ender dragon: the dragon flying through the skies of the End. He also shared an album of images of the ender dragon in flight through the Overworld, showcasing its animation.October 9, 2011
Notch tweets an example of a "texture packer tool" he wrote for the purpose of giving the ender dragon its skin. He shared his progress midway through designing the skin, later announced when the base texture was done, and posted when he had enlarged the wings.October 10, 2011
Notch released a video showing a small clip of the End that also shows the ender dragon fly into the top of the frame.October 12, 2011
In a Reddit post Notch also said, "They will be different dragons. The Ender Dragon will probably become larger, and the ones in the main world will be this size, won't go through terrain, and will be red because dragons are red."

Notch stated in a Twitter post that "Dragons have 6 limbs", consisting of 2 wings, and 4 legs.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
 Added the ender dragon.

The ender dragon currently exists in the game, but does not yet spawn. If hacked into the game using external tools or mods, it draws its hitboxes as solid white boxes on top of the normal dragon model.

It cannot be damaged, but if its health is forced to zero through external tools, it will simply tip over and die like a regular mob.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
Added the ability for the ender dragon to take damage and die, which now has a unique animation. It still does not spawn naturally however.

The ender dragon's health has been temporarily changed to 1HP to test its new death animation.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
The ender dragon has been officially implemented into the game. This includes a single ender dragon as a boss battle, spawning naturally when the player first enters the End.April 28, 2012
Jeb mentioned that he wouldn't be adding any more boss mobs until he makes the ender dragon "more fun first".1.3.112w24a
The bug in which the ender dragon would be unable to damage the player after the player was attacked once has been fixed.

The experience drop of ender dragons has been reduced from 20,000 to 12,000.1.4.212w34b
The boss bar label has been changed from "Boss health" to "Ender Dragon".1.4
Before this update, ender dragons used the same damage sound as the player. Ender dragons now have their own sound.

The wither was added, despite jeb saying he would not add another boss until the ender dragon was revamped.1.513w09c
A bug where swords take no damage when used on the ender dragon has been fixed.1.5.113w11a
The mobGriefing gamerule now prevents the ender dragon from destroying blocks when it flies through them.2013 Music Update
A music track now accompanies the ender dragon boss fight.1.814w20a
The ender dragon no longer breaks barriers.1.915w31a
The ender dragon boss fight has been revamped to be similar to the Legacy Console Edition.

The ender dragon can now be respawned. As a placeholder, this involves placing clay in a creeper face pattern in the End.

The ender dragon no longer destroys iron bars.

 The ender dragon can now produce a fireball during its attack.15w32a
The ender dragon's fireballs now give off ender acid particles upon exploding and no longer light ground on fire.

The ender dragon's charge/knockback attack has now returned.

The ender dragon's wings now damage the player, prevent side and back melee attacks when the dragon lands on the exit portal.

Dragon breath from the ender dragon now shoots out farther.

The ender dragon now immediately charges at the player after finishing the ender acid attack.

The ender dragon's ender acid attack now goes around the whole exit portal.

The ender dragon no longer stops attacking from single hits.

The ender dragon now flies back to portal before finishing the death animation.

The ender dragon no longer takes damage from snowballs, eggs, or other attacks that normally do no damage.15w32b
When fatally damaged, the ender dragon now flies to the exit portal and dies rather than resetting to 1HP and landing.15w33a
The ender dragon's wings no longer deal damage while the ender dragon is landed.

The ender dragon is now immune to arrows while landed.

The ender dragon no longer destroys End portal blocks, End portal frame blocks, or End gateway blocks.

The ender dragon's breath attack now lasts longer.

The ender dragon's fireball attack is now more or less equivalent to a lingering potion of Harming II.15w33c
Respawned ender dragons now drop 500 experience.

Respawning the dragon also respawns the End spikes and End crystals.15w44a
Respawning ender dragons now requires placing 4 End crystals near the exit portal.15w49a
The ender dragon no longer travels through portals.

The ender dragon no longer rides rideable entities such as minecarts or boats.

The ender dragon is no longer affected by status effects.1.1116w35a
Hitboxes of the damageable portions of the ender dragon are now visible using F3 + B.16w43a
The ender dragon is now able to draw from its own loot table.1.1419w08a
Target selectors for the ender dragon (@e[type=minecraft:ender_dragon]) now target a total of 9 entities per dragon.19w08b
The ender dragon no longer dives straight down to the fountain, instead it slowly descends.
The AI of the ender dragon's phases has been broken due to a typo in the dragon's vertical velocity while flying19w12a
Due to the rewriting of the sound system the ender dragon's death sound now always plays at full volume even if the player moves while it is playing.1.1519w39a
The ender dragon no longer has a separate texture for the bottom of its wing anymore.19w41a
A black dot on transparent parts of wing texture has been removed from ender dragons.

A texture for part of wing bottom in the exploding ender dragon has been removed.19w46a
 The texture of the dragon fireball has been changed.1.1720w45a
Target selectors for the ender dragon target 1 entity per dragon once again.1.19.322w44a
 Added spawn eggs for ender dragons, which can be obtained only with commands as to avoid potential destruction of Creative builds.1.21.224w34a
Dragon fireballs no longer go through the world border if hit.1.21.424w44a
The ender dragon now takes reduced damage from hits dealt to its head hitbox.26.1snap6
The ender dragon fight can now be activated in other dimensions.26.2pre4
The ender dragon is no longer affected by geysers.Upcoming Java Edition26.3snap4
The ender dragon once again takes the full damage from hits dealt to its head hitbox.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
 Added the ender dragon.

 The ender dragon produces a fireball during its attack.alpha 1.0.0.2
The ender dragon now goes to the nearest End crystal.?
Dragon fireballs no longer make a glass sound on impact.1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
The entity ID of the ender dragon has been changed from dragon to ender_dragon.Bedrock Edition1.6.0beta 1.6.0.6
The ender dragon no longer travels through portals.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
 The texture of the dragon fireball has been changed.1.19.20Preview 1.19.20.22
Ender dragons can no longer destroy crying obsidian, respawn anchors, light blocks, allow, deny, borders, and jigsaw blocks.1.19.60Preview 1.19.60.20
 Added spawn eggs for the ender dragon.26.40Preview 26.40.26
The ender dragon can now deflect projectiles while perched.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU9CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
 Added the ender dragon with new attacks (dragon's breath and ender charges).

 The ender dragon produces a fireball during its attack.TU10
Before this update, ender dragons used the same damage sound as the player. Ender dragons now have their own sound.TU141.04
The title of the ender dragon's health bar has been changed from "Enderdragon" to "Ender Dragon".TU19CU71.121.121.12
Ender dragons now share their spawn limit category with the wither, meaning that the wither cannot be spawned in the End when the ender dragon is alive.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
The ender dragon no longer takes damage from snowballs, eggs, or other attacks that normally do no damage.[is this the correct version?]
Dragon fireballs now create dragon's breath on impact. Previously dragon's breath was only created by the ender dragon above the exit portal.
Dragon's breath now only deals damage every second instead of every half second.
Dragon's breath now deals knockback away from the ender dragon.
Dragon's breath can now be collected with a glass bottle.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
The spawn limit for boss mobs has been increased, meaning up to 4 withers can now be spawned in the End while the ender dragon is alive.TU60CU511.641.641.64Patch 301.0.11
 The texture of the dragon fireball has been changed to match Java Edition.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.7.10
 Added the ender dragon.

 The ender dragon produces a fireball during its attack.
Data history
Java Edition1.1116w32a
The entity ID of the ender dragon has been changed from EnderDragon to ender_dragon.

The fireball's entity ID has been changed from DragonFireball to dragon_fireball.16w40a
The tags xTile, yTile, zTile, inTile and inGround have been removed from the dragon fireball entity data.

The life tag of ender dragons is no longer used for anything, but still saved/read.1.1317w47a
Numeric IDs for entities were presumably deprecated in this version.​[more information needed]26.1snap6
The tags NeedsStateScanning, DragonKilled, PreviouslyKilled, Dragon, ExitPortalLocation and Gateways have been renamed to needs_state_scanning, dragon_killed, previously_killed, dragon_uuid, exit_portal_location and gateways respectively.

Added tags respawn_time and respawn_crystals.

Replaced tag IsRespawning with respawn_stage.
Issues
Issues relating to "Ender Dragon" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
If the dragon is killed in the Overworld or the Nether, it does not create the exit portal or a dragon egg, unless the dimension has has_ender_dragon_fight set to true in the dimension type.‌[Java Edition  only]
In Spectator mode, the player cannot view the perspective of the ender dragon, unlike any other mob. However, it is possible through the use of commands (like /spectate). When this happens, the player's camera appears about 1 block over the dragon's body.
In Legacy Console Edition, the ender dragon's death sound is bass-boosted.[verify]
Also in Legacy Console Edition, it is possible to see the ender dragon from the end island. However, two players will be needed, as doing so requires killing the ender dragon to unlock the end island in the first place. The same can be said with the end crystal explosion particles.
Using F3 + B‌[JE  only] to show hitboxes reveals that the ender dragon's head rotation faces in the opposite direction to where its real head faces. This is also why the ender dragon faces the wrong way when set in a monster spawner.
When an ender dragon is spawned in the Overworld, it flies to coordinates X=0 and Z=0 and dives at the ground or does the same behavior as if in the End. If End crystals are placed in the Overworld, they heal the dragon as normal, but it does not perch anywhere and continues to fly around forever.
In Bedrock Edition, there is an unused texture file for a dragon fireball item.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, one of the spirits that comes with the Steve/Alex DLC is the Ender Dragon. It appears as a Legend-class "spirit" that makes the user breathe fire for a long time at the start of each battle.
If commands or Creative mode are used to get End portal frames and eyes of ender, a player can skip to the End Poem.
If a player destroys End crystals or even hurts the dragon and then uses a player-made portal, upon returning, the player will retain their progress.‌[BE  only]
There is a death message that reads "<player> was roasted in dragon's breath", for getting killed by the dragon fireball, that is currently unsendable due to a bug.
The ender dragon was originally meant to play a large part in A Minecraft Movie, but would still be mentioned in I Feel Alive as a past adversary of Steve.
In the New Nintendo 3DS Edition's e-manual, the fireballs the ender dragon spits are referred to as "Ender Acid", and its breath is referred to as "Acid breath".
While working on Minecraft: Volume 1, Sfé R. Monster had difficulty drawing the ender dragon and tried to make the illustrations as game accurate as possible.
Notch-related
On Reddit, Notch suggested the ender dragon's name to be "Jean?" in the same manner he called the player "Steve?".
Dinnerbone later stated that he thinks the name is officially "Jean?".
Despite this, an article on Minecraft.net states that  "uttering its true name would unleash a destructive force that would obliterate not only the End, but the Nether and the Overworld at the same time."
Also on Reddit, Notch referred to the ender dragon as a she, and the Xbox avatar item Ender Dragon Pet purporting to be her brother has the description "A cuter, friendlier version of his bigger, less playful Minecraft sister"; however, it has been later confirmed by Notch, Brandon Pearce and Jeb that all mobs in Minecraft have no gender, which includes the ender dragon.
Despite this, the ender dragon continues to be referred with feminine pronouns in Bedrock Edition's in-game encyclopedia. In addition, certain universe canons still refer to the ender dragon with feminine pronouns.
Before it was textured, Notch reported that he was afraid to texture the ender dragon as it was a complicated model. In the end, the dragon model was so complex Notch stated that he gave up making the texture manually and wrote a texture packer tool to aid him in adding the texture to the model. Notch also uploaded the code for the tool so others could use the pack. (Link to the texture packer)
Notch joked about how Minecraft was "going next-gen" when deadmau5 mentioned this.
Notch has uploaded a video showing why ender dragons do not spawn in the main world, as they would destroy any block they touch.
On Reddit, Notch explained that ender dragons destroy Overworld matter because "trying to make an AI to properly navigate arbitrary terrain before the code freeze next tuesday [sic] isn't feasible".
Gallery
Screenshots



			The ender dragon after defeat



			An ender dragon being healed by an End crystal



			The ender dragon flying over the End



			The ender dragon attacks a player while being healed.



			Dozens of player-spawned ender dragons and withers fighting each other



			More ender dragons fighting withers



			The ender dragon dying from the explosion of the End crystal it was using



			The dragon perching on the exit portal



			The dragon firing a fireball at the player



			The dying dragon quickly charging toward the exit portal to roost. A pool of acid lies in the foreground



			The green hitboxes, visible when F3 + B is toggled



			Four End crystals placed at the exit portal to respawn the ender dragon



			Comparison between the ender dragon and the wither



			Screenshot of a possible glitch resulting in the spawning of two ender dragons


Mojang screenshots



			The ender dragon with the Glowing effect‌[Java Edition  only]



			The ender dragon dying as seen when the player has Night Vision



			Ender dragon above the exit portal



			T-posing ender dragon



			An ender dragon taking damage in the Overworld


Textures



			Ender Dragon texture file



			Ender Dragon eyes texture file



			Ender Dragon exploding texture file


Development images



			The first screenshot of the ender dragon



			The same screenshot, only brighter



			The ender dragon before being textured



			The ender dragon before being textured



			The ender dragon before being textured



			The ender dragon before being textured



			The ender dragon before being textured



			The first ender dragon texture



			The ender dragon with its first texture



			The ender dragon's texture taking shape



			The ender dragon with its first semi-complete texture



			The ender dragon's texture at this stage



			The ender dragon with wings more closely resembling their modern form



			The ender dragon's texture at this stage



			The ender dragon's head and neck were lowered to make it look more "evil".



			The ender dragon flying over the Overworld



			The first screenshot of the ender dragon in Xbox 360 Edition



			T-posing rendering glitch during Vibrant Visuals development


In other media



			The ender dragon in promotional artwork for the Ender Update



			Ender dragon artwork used on the Minecraft.net



			Artwork for Realms Stories depicting Ari and Sunny defeating the Ender Dragon



			The ender dragon pictured in the Mobestiary



			The ender dragon spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			The Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ender dragon spirit



			The ender dragon as it appears in Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds



			Concept art for the ender dragon in A Minecraft Movie







			The ender dragon as it appears in Minecraft: Story Mode


Merchandise



			LEGO Ender Dragon micromob ("Micro World - The End")



			LEGO Ender Dragon minifigure ("The Ender Dragon")



			LEGO Ender Dragon minifigure ("The End Battle")



			LEGO Ender Dragon minifigure ("The Ender Dragon and End Ship")



			An early, humanoid ender dragon plush



			An unboxed ender dragon plush



			Official T-shirt artwork "Enderdragon" featuring Steve fighting the ender dragon made by JINX



			Official T-shirt artwork "Heroes Crest" featuring an iron golem and an ender dragon made by JINX



			Official T-shirt artwork "Battle" featuring a creeper, an enderman, Steve, a ghast, and either an ender dragon or a red dragon made by SamCube



			Official T-shirt artwork "The End is Nigh" made by JINX



			A newer version of "The End is Nigh." The text is the Standard Galactic Alphabet, which translates to its title



			Ender dragon plush made by JINX



			An officially licensed ender dragon headlight



			Nerf ender dragon blaster


Notes

 Attacks have their damage reduced by ~75%, giving it an effective 800HP × 400.

 Fire is destroyed only if the block underneath it is destroyed, if it even can be.

 Soul fire is destroyed only if the soul sand or soul soil is destroyed underneath it.

References

 MCPE-51345 – Killing the Ender Dragon a second time generates another Dragon Egg

 "HAVE YOU SEEN THESE BLOCKS IN MINECRAFT?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 29, 2024

 MC-308469 – Hitting the Ender Dragon's head hitbox no longer causes the ender dragon to take more damage

 MC-197201 – The Ender Dragon does not dive toward the player (missing "diving" attack).

 MC-271336 – Ender Dragon dive to portal is broken after 19w08b.

 http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/l9m8m/why_ender_dragons_wont_spawn_in_main_world/c2qxhwh

 "Dragons have six limbs."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 12, 2011

 MC-146503 – Ender dragon consists of 9 entities in total – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 MC-271336 – Ender Dragon dive to portal is broken after 19w08b.

 MC-272431 – Ender Dragon's incorrect velocity while flying causes erratic behavior

 MC-271337 – Ender Dragon dragon phase behaviors are broken after 19w08b

 MC-189872 – Certain mobs don't have spawn eggs – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-308469 – Hitting the Ender Dragon's head hitbox no longer causes the ender dragon to take more damage – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-84595 – "Roasted in dragon's breath" death message does not appear when player is killed by dragon's breath

 "Peter Sollett to Direct Warner Bros.' 'Minecraft' Movie (Exclusive)"     by Justin Kroll  – Variety, January 11, 2019.

 "New Graphic Novel"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, May 25, 2019. "Drawing the Ender Dragon I was constantly checking the reference, being like “is that where the block goes?” But it’s really cool that I got to draw the main cast in my own style because I just married the two together. So it’s Minecraft, but I got to do my own spin on it, so I’m really happy with what happened."

 https://reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/l9m8m/why_ender_dragons_wont_spawn_in_main_world/c2qxl5z?context=1

 "Officially I think it's "Jean?" ;D"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), January 22, 2015

 "Taking Inventory: Name Tag"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, March 15, 2019.

 https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/l9ubb/ender_dragon_has_been_named/

 https://web.archive.org/web/20120728170757/http://notch.tumblr.com/post/28188312756/gender-in-minecraft

 "All mobs in Minecraft are genderless :)"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), October 30, 2020

 "Ask Mojang: Holiday Special with Jeb and Lydia @3:26"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 24, 2020

 "I am a bit afraid of texturing the dragon. It's a very big model. I am going to need unhealthy food for this."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 8, 2011

 "Finally gave up on doing it manually and wrote a texture packer tool."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 9, 2011

 "Yeah, we're going next gen here!" - @notch on Twitter; October 9, 2011

 "Why Ender Dragons won't spawn in the main world"  – mojnotch on YouTube, October 12, 2011

 https://reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/l9m8m/why_ender_dragons_wont_spawn_in_main_world/c2qx6qk?context=1

External links
"Mob Menagerie: Ender Dragon"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, August 21, 2025.
Navigation



This was a featured article from March 2, 2026 – March 8, 2026. 
See Minecraft Wiki:Featured articles for more information.