This  topic  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources. Note: Presumed title.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Character items, Collection characters

Key art for the event
From December 4 to December 11, 2024, several releases were made to promote The Garden Awakens drop, which had released the day before the campaign. These 7 days were known as Expect the unexpected, also known as Beyond the Pale Garden, featuring projects such as add-ons, a skin pack, and an event server.
Prior to the campaign's official beginning, a cryptic article revealing the Garden Awakens release date set up a narrative of Minecraft.net writer Sophie Austin reportedly disappeared into the pale garden. It would be formally announced on Minecraft Monthly.

Contents

1 December 4

1.1 Packs inspired by the pale garden

2 December 5

2.1 Take on eerie challenges

3 December 6

3.1 The Garden Awakens Collection

4 December 7

4.1 Eerie Mojang Office Party

5 December 10

5.1 Three startling add-ons
5.2 Starter Packs
5.3 Saving Kitty

6 December 11

6.1 New rewarded achievement

7 Videos
8 Gallery

8.1 Official artwork
8.2 Screenshots
8.3 Promotions

9 References
10 Navigation

December 4
Packs inspired by the pale garden

Phantom Frames
Main article: Phantom Frames
Phantom Frames is a free add-on developed by Hive Games, available on both Bedrock Edition and Java Edition (as data pack and resource pack). The add-on features several "magic paintings," which send the player to a random biome in the world.

Majestic Camping
Main article: Majestic Camping Add-On
Majestic Camping is an add-on developed by Jordan Maron, better known as CaptainSparklez, that is centered around various camping supplies, such as hammocks, tents, and flashlights. It was released for  660 Minecoins.

Ghost Pets
Main article: Ghost Pets Add-On
Ghost Pets is an add-on developed by AriaCreations that allow existing "pet" mobs to become powerful ghosts, with associated features such as glowing dye. It was released for  660 Minecoins.

December 5
Take on eerie challenges
See also: The Garden Awakens (skin pack)

To promote the release of the drop, an advertising campaign began on December 6, 2024,  featuring two community challenges. For Bedrock players, they'll earn the two items. For Java players, a skin pack was also released to reward progress.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

How to obtain

Challenge

Icon

Render

Creaking Mask

Face Items

Rare

Requires players defeating 75 million creakings.

Mob Community Challenge

The Creak

Emote

Required players placing 50 million resin blocks.

Biome Community Challenge

December 6

The Garden Awakens Collection
A series of character creator items, referred to as the Garden Awakens Collection, was released, made to represent three distinct characters.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Price

Character

Icon

Render

Tattered Flannel

Top

Rare

 400 Minecoins

Pale Wood Punching Lumberjack

Tattered Jeans

Bottom

 160 Minecoins

Creaking Pauldron

Outerwear

 280 Minecoins

Resin-Trimmed Gloves

Gloves

 160 Minecoins

Pale Brimmed Hat

Headwear

Epic

 400 Minecoins

Eyeblossom Botanist

Eyeblossom Apron

Outerwear

Rare

 280 Minecoins

Pale Gardening Gloves

Gloves

 160 Minecoins

Pale Moss Hair

Hairs

 120 Minecoins

Rake Moss

Pale Moss Beard

Facial Hairs

Pale Moss Shoes

Shoes

Epic

 240 Minecoins

December 7
Promo for the event
Eerie Mojang Office Party
Main article: Eerie Mojang Office Party
Although previously announced on Minecraft Monthly, on December 7th an article was announced formally explaining the Eerie Mojang Office Party. The plot, settings, rewards, and release date of the event were revealed.

December 10
Three startling add-ons
After several days without any official updates to the initiative, news would conclude with the announcement of three additional add-ons.

Scary Furniture
Main article: Scary Furniture Add-On
Developed by Honeyfrost, Scary Furniture contains several pieces of unique furniture entities. Several options include mimic chests, haunted bookshelves, chess sets, and a piano. The pack was released for free, with an accompanying pop-up to promote it. Within the context of the narrative framing device, the possessed furniture ended up killing several detectives.

Mob Lights Add-On
Main article: Mob Lights Add-On
Developed by Horizon Blocks, Mob Light is an add-on adds several lights in the shape of mobs. These each have their own properties and abilities, intended for use defending survival bases. The add-on was released for  660 Minecoins, and contributed to the meta narrative by helping illuminate a path, with the investors getting distracted by the add-on's cosmetic options.

Monster Food Add-On
Main article: Monster Food Add-On
Developed by Noxcrew, Monster Food offers several food options themed around monsters, such as wardens, ravagers, and the ender dragon. The add-on was released for  660 Minecoins.

Starter Packs



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Alongside the add-ons, two additional content bundles were released to coincide with the theme of the event.

Weapons Pack
The Weapons Pack is a bundle devoted to weapons and tools, including the Mob Weapons add-on by Logdotzip, two additional add-ons, the Pufferfist character item, and minecoins.

Scary Pack
The Scary Pack is a bundle devoted to horror tropes, including the Mutant Zombie Dungeons map, Mutants add-on, The Backrooms map, Insane Disasters add-on by Spark Universe, several character items, and minecoins.

Promotional image
Saving Kitty
On Twitter, notable Minecraft content creators CaseOh and Quackity were announced to be participating in a promotional stream. Announced to begin on December 13th, the stream centers around their quest to rescue CaseOh's cat Kitty, who had somehow been captured in a cage within a pale garden.

December 11
New rewarded achievement
Following several days of apparent incidents within the narrative, Sophie was found outside the pale garden, wearing the Heart Transplanter character creator item. The item is unlocked by properly activating a collected creaking heart.

Videos









Gallery
Official artwork



			The three characters



			A creaking and a pile of resin blocks in the pale garden



			First progress update on the Build Community Challenge



			An alternate update



			Finished progress update on the Build Community Challenge



			An alternative completion



			Promotional image for the challenges



			First progress update on the Mob Community Challenge



			An alternative update



			Finished progress update on the Mob Community Challenge



			An alternative update



			A promotion for the Heart Transplant achievement



			Another version



			Efe emerging



			Ghost pets roaming a campsite



			The lumberjack and botanist in a campsite


Screenshots



			Ari, Sunny, Noor, and Makena wearing the Creaking Mask while doing the "Creak" emote



			Sunny and Zuri using the Ghost Pets add-on



			Sunny being eaten by a mimic



			Ari and Noor eating monster food



			A crunch of creakings



			A woodland mansion decorated with add-on items


Promotions



			Vu Bui promoting the event



			A pop-up notification promoting the event, as well as the framing device



			The full announcement in the inbox



			A section of the Marketplace


References

 "Minecraft: Expect the unexpected"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 6, 2024

 "Beyond the pale garden"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 4, 2024.

 "The Garden Awakens"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, November 27, 2024.

  "NEWEST GAME DROP! + LIVE EVENT IN MINECRAFT? | MINECRAFT MONTHLY"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 4, 2024

 "Get the free Phantom Frames Add-On on the Minecraft Marketplace!"     – The Hive, December 4, 2024.

 "Ghost Pets Add-On"     by AriaCreations  – Minecraft Marketplace.

 "The Garden Awakens Community Challenges"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, December 6, 2024.

 "Pale garden couture"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 6, 2024.

 "Join our in-game event"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 7, 2024.

 "Three startling add-ons"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 10, 2024.

 "For the very first time, @Quackity & @CaseOh__ are teaming up in Minecraft to celebrate The Garden Awakens drop!Together, they must save CaseOh's cat, Kitty, from a cage hidden deep within the Pale Garden. Will they get got by the creaking, or will they save kitty?Find out December 13th 9:30pm CT / 7:30pm PT"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), December 10, 2024

 "New rewarded achievement"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 11, 2024.

Navigation