A Caves & Cliffs Story

Author(s)

Sofia Dankis

Language

English

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Minecraft.net

{
    "title": "A Caves & Cliffs Story",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Sofia Dankis article, displayed as Sofia Dankis)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net)",
            "label": "Publisher"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

A Caves & Cliffs Story is a trilogy of short stories written by Sofia Dankis, published on Minecraft.net. They tell of three initially unrelated situations themed after the Caves & Cliffs update, but ultimately connect by the third installment.

Contents

1 Installments

1.1 The Legend of the Screaming Goat

1.1.1 Characters

1.2 Axolotl Adventures

1.2.1 Characters

1.3 Courageous Cave Crawling

1.3.1 Characters

2 Quotes
3 Gallery
4 References
5 Navigation

Installments
The Legend of the Screaming Goat

A Caves & Cliffs Story

Genre(s)

Action-adventure myth

Release date

May 25, 2021

{
    "title": "A Caves & Cliffs Story",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Action-adventure myth",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 25, 2021",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "ScreamingGoat_old_adjustment2.jpg"
    ]
}
Lee came from a family of storytellers, who under many different circumstances told tall tales of varying authenticity, passed down from generation to generation. All except one, a legend of a screaming goat. Many centuries prior, an ancestor of Lee went on a mountain expedition, ultimately getting lost along the way. Unwilling to give up, they would get caught off guard by the scream of a goat, becoming distracted long enough to get knocked off. As the ancestor screamed for their life, they discovered they yelled not of their own voice, but of the goat's.
After falling off the moment, they awoke in a meadow, having mysteriously survived the fall and now dressed in leather armor. Lee doubted that part was true, but nevertheless the family took this incident as a lesson that screaming goats brought good fortune, leading to their business as leatherworkers. However, business has begun to wane over the past several decades, leading them to blame it on the disappearance of the screaming goat population. Once Lee was deemed old enough, they were appointed to return to the mountain and find another miracle.
Waking up early, Lee was moderately nervous about the situation, making sure to pack anything needed including food, spare supplies, a compass, spyglass, a map, and their "trusted bucket." After a long journey to the mountain, Lee would catch several noises, but not matching what they needed. However, they caught wind of a "familiar hissing sound," causing them to flee and climb to safer ground. Once night fell, Lee dug out a shelter in the side of the mountain, installing a window and iron door.
Several days would pass, necessitating a larger camp with utilities such as a crafting table, cauldrons, and a composter. For levity, they even added a perch to appreciate the romantic view, before Lee discovered their first goat. Although it took their breath away, it was not a screaming goat. Watching a herd through the spyglass, Lee took notes, somehow determining they attacked everything but shulkers and other goats. As more time passed, Lee continued their research, as zombies tried and failed to kill them, recording everything that happened.
When the food supply started running low, Lee retrieved milk from a goat, crafting a cake. Unfortunately, the food continued to dwindle, as Lee began to grow increasingly homesick. Deciding to return home, they chose to come home with just their stories, such as a pig getting hit off the mountain. Lee decided to leave the crafting table and cauldrons behind for any who find them, and went to bed. The next morning, they were awoken by a strange sound, and were met by a herd of goats, terrifying them. Trying to flee, they discovered the cauldrons filled with powder snow, and used it to scare away the goats.
However, one goat remained, and marched towards Lee. It screamed. Sure enough, the legend is proven as Lee was rammed into powder snow, unable to scream in their voice. Beginning to freeze to death, Lee pulled out a pair of leather boots in an effort to escape, discovering they let them walk on top. They screamed in joy, this time with their own voice.
Returning home, Lee was quick to tell of their adventure, and realized the screaming goat was "only part of a bigger picture." They focused more on the other mobs they discovered, the research they did on the quest. In the months that followed, the family business was reinvigorated by somehow incorporating powder snow into it, as Lee decided to become a mobologist, studying more mobs in foreign biomes.

Characters

Cow
Creamy Llama
Creeper
Goat
Lee
Lee's Ancestor
Legendary Screaming Goat
Pig
Shulker
White Sheep
Zombie
Axolotl Adventures
Cam, a solitary resident of a beach, notices bubbles of the shore and investigates to make some new friends. After being ambushed, the source of the bubbles is revealed to be a fleet of drowned and elder guardians. Cam begins blindly attacking the mobs, and quickly begins losing health, but is saved when many axolotls fight the mobs. After accidentally catching one in a bucket, they follow Cam to their home on the shore.

Characters

Blue Axolotl
Cam
Cod
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Gold Axolotl
Leucistic Axolotl
Wild Axolotl
Courageous Cave Crawling
Dee is reluctant to join their friends on adventured detailed in the first two stories. They go relax in their secluded cave, but notice a previously unseen opening. They bravely explore, firstly reaching an aquifer in a dripstone caves biome, than reaching axolotols in the lush caves. They run away after coming face to face with a creeper, ending up in the flower forest where their friends are collecting dyes.

Characters

Blue Axolotl (mentioned)
Cam
Creeper
Dee
Evoker (mentioned)
Glow Squid
Gold Axolotl (mentioned)
Lee
Leucistic Axolotl (mentioned)
Pillager (mentioned)
Unspecified Axolotl
Wild Axolotl (mentioned)
Witch (mentioned)
Quotes
“aaaaAaaAAaaaaaAAAAAAARGH!!!„ — Screaming Goat“Lee found themself drawn in a different direction and made time for more adventures, studying mobs in different biomes all over the Overworld. Over time, Lee filled countless books with their observations, thoughts, and stories. Maybe one day, they would be able to share their findings with others. Just like the legends in Lee’s family, they weren’t sure how much was accurate. But they knew this for sure – if a goat screams at you, all you can do is scream right back.„ — The final passage of The Legend of the Screaming Goat
Gallery



			Header for the Legend article.



			Goats on a mountain.



			The "pink balloon."



			The climactic herd.


References

 "The Legend of the Screaming Goat"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, May 25, 2021.

 "Axolotl Adventures"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, June 2, 2021.

 "Courageous Cave Crawling"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 10, 2021.

Navigation