For the 2012 documentary film, see Minecraft: The Story of Mojang.

 For the sequel, see A Minecraft Movie Squared.

A Minecraft Movie

Type

Film

Directed by

Jared Hess

Screenplay by

Chris Bowman
Hubbel Palmer
Neil Widener
Gavin James
Chris Galletta

Story by

Allison Schroeder
Chris Bowman
Hubbel Palmer

Produced by

Jon Berg
Cale Boyter
Vu Bui
Roy Lee
Jill Messick
Jason Momoa
Torfi Frans Ólafsson
Mary Parent

Starring

Jack Black
Jason Momoa
Sebastian Eugene Hansen
Emma Myers
Danielle Brooks
Jennifer Coolidge

Cinematography

Enrique Chediak

Edited by

James Thomas

Music by

Mark MothersbaughDaniel Rosenfeld (original themes)

Productioncompanies

 Mojang Studios
Vertigo Entertainment
Legendary Pictures
On the Roam
Domain Entertainment

Distributed by

 Warner Bros. Pictures

Date

March 30, 2025(Empire Leicester Square)
April 2, 2025(Worldwide)
April 3, 2025(Brazil, Argentina, Italy, New Zealand, Ukraine)
April 4, 2025(North America)

Length

101 minutes

Rating(s)

US: PG
UK: PG
Australia: PG

Budget

$150 million

Box office

$960.39 million

{
    "title": "''A Minecraft Movie''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Film",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Jared Hess article, displayed as Jared Hess)",
            "label": "Directed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Chris Bowman\n* (link to wikipedia:Hubbel Palmer article, displayed as Hubbel Palmer)\n* Neil Widener\n* Gavin James\n* (link to wikipedia:Chris Galletta article, displayed as Chris Galletta)",
            "label": "Screenplay by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*(link to wikipedia:Allison Schroeder article, displayed as Allison Schroeder)\n*Chris Bowman\n*Hubbel Palmer",
            "label": "Story by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Jon Berg\n*(link to wikipedia:Cale Boyter article, displayed as Cale Boyter)\n*(link to Vu Bui article, displayed as Vu Bui)\n*(link to wikipedia:Roy Lee article, displayed as Roy Lee)\n*(link to wikipedia:Jill Messick article, displayed as Jill Messick)\n*(link to Jason Momoa article, displayed as Jason Momoa)\n*(link to Torfi Frans Ólafsson article, displayed as Torfi Frans Ólafsson)\n*(link to wikipedia:Mary Parent article, displayed as Mary Parent)",
            "label": "Produced by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Jack Black article, displayed as Jack Black)\n* (link to Jason Momoa article, displayed as Jason Momoa)\n* (link to Sebastian Eugene Hansen article, displayed as Sebastian Eugene Hansen)\n* (link to Emma Myers article, displayed as Emma Myers)\n* (link to Danielle Brooks article, displayed as Danielle Brooks)\n* (link to Jennifer Coolidge article, displayed as Jennifer Coolidge)",
            "label": "Starring"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Enrique Chediak article, displayed as Enrique Chediak)",
            "label": "Cinematography"
        },
        {
            "field": "James Thomas",
            "label": "Edited by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Mark Mothersbaugh article, displayed as Mark Mothersbaugh)<br>(link to Daniel Rosenfeld article, displayed as Daniel Rosenfeld) <small>(original themes)</small>",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to File:Mojang Studios logo.svg article, displayed as 20px) (link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)\n* (link to Vertigo Entertainment article, displayed as Vertigo Entertainment)\n* (link to Legendary Pictures article, displayed as Legendary Pictures)\n* On the Roam\n* Domain Entertainment",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Warner Bros. Pictures Logo.svg article, displayed as 20px) (link to Warner Bros. Pictures article, displayed as Warner Bros. Pictures)",
            "label": "Distributed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* March 30, 2025<br>((link to wikipedia:Empire Leicester Square article, displayed as Empire Leicester Square))\n* April 2, 2025<br>(Worldwide)\n* April 3, 2025<br>(Brazil, Argentina, Italy, New Zealand, Ukraine)\n* April 4, 2025<br>(North America)",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "101 minutes",
            "label": "Length"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* '''US''': (link to wikipedia:Motion Picture Association film rating system#PG article, displayed as PG)\n* '''UK''': PG\n* '''Australia''': PG",
            "label": "Rating(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "$150 million",
            "label": "Budget"
        },
        {
            "field": "$960.39 million",
            "label": "Box office"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Theatrical release poster
A Minecraft Movie is a 2025 adventure comedy film based on the video game Minecraft. It is directed by Jared Hess and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer, Neil Widener, Gavin James, and Chris Galletta, from a story by Allison Schroeder, Bowman, and Palmer.
Plans for the film originated in February 2014 when Markus Persson announced that the film was in development at Warner Bros. Pictures. However, the film ultimately did not leave the pre-production phase until April 2022, when it was reported that Jared Hess was set to direct the film and Jason Momoa was attached to star. Further casting was announced between May 2023 and January 2024, with principal photography beginning that month and wrapping in April 2024.
A Minecraft Movie had its premiere held at the Empire Leicester Square in London, England, on March 30, 2025, and was theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on April 4, 2025.
The film has received mixed to negative reviews from critics, but it has been a box-office success, grossing $960 million worldwide against a budget of $150 million, making it the second-highest grossing film based on a video game at the time of its release, the second-highest grossing domestic film of 2025, and the fifth-highest grossing film worldwide of 2025, subsequently making it Jared Hess' highest-grossing film to date.
A sequel, titled A Minecraft Movie Squared, is in development and is slated to be released on July 23, 2027.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Cast
4 Production

4.1 Development
4.2 Casting
4.3 Filming
4.4 Post-production

5 Music
6 Release

6.1 Theatrical
6.2 Home media
6.3 Marketing

7 Videos
8 Reception

8.1 Box office
8.2 Critical response
8.3 Cinema reactions
8.4 Accolades

9 Sequel
10 Trivia
11 Gallery

11.1 Promotional artwork
11.2 Screenshots
11.3 GIFs
11.4 Behind-the-scenes

11.4.1 Concept artwork
11.4.2 Storyboards

12 Notes
13 References
14 External links
15 Navigation

Synopsis
“Four misfits—Garrett "The Garbage Man" Garrison (Momoa), Henry (Hansen), Natalie (Myers) and Dawn (Brooks)—find themselves struggling with ordinary problems when they are suddenly pulled through a mysterious portal into the Overworld: a bizarre, cubic wonderland that thrives on imagination. To get back home, they’ll have to master this world (and protect it from evil things like piglins and zombies, too) while embarking on a magical quest with an unexpected, expert crafter, Steve (Black). Together, their adventure will challenge all five to be bold and to reconnect with the qualities that make each of them uniquely creative... the very skills they need to thrive back in the real world.„ — Warner Bros. Pictures and Mojang Studios
Plot



Spoiler warning! This section contains detailed information about A Minecraft Movie that may spoil your enjoyment of it. Read at your own risk!

Steve had a passion to explore the mine since he was young, but he wasn't allowed to do so with his young age. He settled for an office job years later, but feeling discontent, he remembered the mines and returned to them, finally able to explore. While mining, he came across the Earth Crystal and the Orb of Dominance; combining the two formed the Earth Cube, which activated an Earth Portal, in which he discovers the Overworld. There, he tames and befriends a wolf named Dennis and becomes an expert builder. One day, Steve discovers an obsidian gateway and, upon reactivating it, enters the Nether. He encounters Malgosha, the leader of the piglins, who despises creativity and has wished to demolish the Overworld for gold since being mocked at a talent show she joined in her childhood. Malgosha imprisons Steve and Dennis, who escape with the Orb of Dominance. Steve instructs Dennis to go to Earth and hide the orb under his bed at home. Steve is imprisoned once again as Dennis escapes into Earth.
Years later, Garrett Garrison, nicknamed "The Garbage Man" after becoming the video game champion of 1989, runs a store known as Game Over World in Chuglass, Idaho, but he receives an eviction notice. He heads to a storage unit that is said to hold an Atari Cosmos, hoping to sell it at his shop. Garrett wins the unit, but the Atari Cosmos is nowhere to be found. He trashes the unit before leaving, upset at his misfortune, but his car soon breaks down. Meanwhile, Henry and Natalie move into Chuglass following the death of their mother. They meet their estate agent, Dawn, who introduces them to their home. The next morning, Henry visits Game Over World before school and meets Garrett, who offers to mentor him. Upon arriving at Chuglass High School, he is greeted by Vice Principal Marlene and begins art class. He builds a jetpack, which wows the students, but after being sabotaged by Trevor and his friend, the jetpack goes haywire and crashes into the local potato chip factory. Henry is nearly expelled, but Garrett pretends to be his uncle and picks him up. Back at Game Over World, Henry notices the Orb of Dominance and combines it with the Earth Crystal, dragging him to the mineshaft. Dawn and Natalie follow him and Garrett into the mineshaft, and they are all dragged through the portal into the Overworld. As they take in their surroundings, a nitwit secretly goes through the portal and enters Earth.
Malgosha soon discovers that the Orb has returned, and frees Steve on the condition that he retrieves the Orb for her. He obliges, but he attempts a sneak attack. Malgosha threatens to kill Dennis if Steve does not oblige, forcing him to reluctantly accept. Dennis then heads into the mineshaft, goes through the portal, and returns to the Overworld. Meanwhile, it becomes nighttime in the Overworld, and the gang is attacked by numerous hostile mobs. Garrett escapes through a tunnel underground, while Henry builds a house to protect him, Natalie, and Dawn. Garrett emerges beneath the surface and makes it to the house, but the cube is destroyed by a skeleton's arrow. The group are cornered by zombies but they are soon rescued by Steve as it becomes daytime. He introduces himself and agrees to help the misfits return home, planning to do so by stealing another crystal from the Woodland Mansion. Meanwhile, the nitwit gets hit by Marlene's car, and Marlene offers to take the nitwit out for dinner.
Upon arriving at Midport Village, Steve introduces the group to the villagers, and leads them to Steve's Lava Chicken! and his stash. In the Nether, Malgosha orders General Chungus to lead an army into the village and kill the humans. In the Overworld, Steve introduces Henry and Garrett to the crafting table, crafting an iron sword. Garrett then crafts two buckets connected to a chain, and Henry crafts a tot launcher using items from Earth. As Dawn and Natalie meet the cartographer, the village is attacked by General Chungus and his army. The humans get the upper hand and eventually escape, splitting up in the process. Steve, Henry, and Garrett escape with elytra and are chased through the air by piglins and ghasts. Dawn and Natalie attempt to craft a boat to follow the cartographer, but they are unable to do so. Meanwhile, on Earth, Marlene goes on a date with the nitwit and expresses feelings towards him, which are reciprocated.
Steve, Garrett, and Henry then head for the Redstone Mountains, with the woodland mansion just beyond them. Malgosha fires General Chungus, who is killed by the Great Hog. Dawn and Natalie encounter Dennis and tame him, and Dawn asks Dennis to take them to Steve. In the Redstone Mines, Steve, Garrett, and Henry find Steve's stash of diamonds, as Garrett secretly requested to Steve earlier that he may bring home diamonds to pay his debts. They are interrupted by the Great Hog and escape through a minecart track, killing the Great Hog in Steve's creeper farm. Henry and Garrett then get into a heated argument, while on Earth, Marlene and the nitwit are still having a dinner date.
Henry, Garrett, and Steve soon arrive at the woodland mansion. As previously planned, Henry retrieves the Earth Crystal to combine it with the orb, while Garrett and Steve distract the illagers with a Birthday Rap song. Henry eventually finds the crystal, but he is attacked by an enderman, all while Steve and Garrett are subjected to a fight with a chicken jockey. After Henry defeats the enderman and the other two win the fight, the three escape. Outside, they are cornered by Malgosha and her army, who steals the orb and reveals she made a New Hog. Henry and Steve escape on a lone ghast while Garrett sacrifices himself to hold off the piglins, seemingly being caught in a TNT explosion. After Henry and Steve crash-land on grass, they are taken to the Mushroom Safe House built by Dawn. Steve is happily reunited with Dennis while Henry and Natalie apologize and reconcile. Malgosha gives the orb to two piglins, who place the orb atop a giant Nether portal, blocking out the sun and spawning Nether wart everywhere, thus beginning the Great Darkening.
Steve, Henry, Natalie, and Dawn work together to stop the piglins, building iron golems to take down the army, while Steve faces Malgosha with diamond armor. Henry heads up to the orb using an ender pearl with his tot launcher, and Dawn sends Dennis and a pack of wolves after the piglins. Henry attempts to retrieve the orb, but he is attacked by the New Hog. Garrett saves Henry using the ghast he hijacked and fires fireballs at the Nether portal, destroying it, and zombifying the piglins in the process. Retrieving the orb, the misfits are able to head back home. Steve allows Dennis to go live with Dawn, and after Natalie suggests that Steve head into the real world, he decides to join them. On Earth, Steve assists Garrett in creating a new arcade game, Block City Battle Buddies, and forms a band with him. Dawn leaves her real-estate job to start a petting zoo, and Natalie now leads a self-defense class. Henry arrives in school on his jet pack and is admired by fellow students.
In a mid-credits scene, Marlene and the nitwit get engaged, having learnt each other's languages.
In a post-credits scene, Steve heads back to his home to retrieve his personal belongings from the attic. He is greeted by the current owner, a woman named Alex.

Cast
Jason Momoa as Garrett "The Garbage Man" Garrison, a "video game world champion" from 1989 that can't seem to move on from his previous fame.
Moana Williams portrays a young Garrett Garrison.
Jack Black as Steve, the first human to discover the Overworld, who has yearned for the mines since his childhood.
Bram-Scott Breheny portrays a young Steve.
Sebastian Eugene Hansen as Henry, the younger brother of Natalie. He is shown as a modder in A Minecraft Movie and the one holding the Earth Cube when he first entered the game's world.
Emma Myers as Natalie, Henry's older sister whom is struggling to live independently.
Danielle Brooks as Dawn Runcie, the real estate agent who helps Natalie and Henry settle in Chuglass.
Jennifer Coolidge as Marlene, the vice-principal of Chuglass High School.
Rachel House as Malgosha, the queen of the piglins.
Allan Henry physically portrays Malgosha.
Jared Hess as General Chungus, an officer in Malgosha's army.
Daniel Rosenfeld (archived audio) and Matt Berry as Nitwit, a villager who enters the real world and becomes Marlene's love interest.
Jemaine Clement as Daryl, an auctioneer and friend to Garrett. Clement also provides the voice for Bruce.
Kate McKinnon as the voice of Alex.
Alice May Connolly physically portrays Alex in the post-credits scene.
Mark Wright as an HR Person at Chuggy Potato Chips
Yvette Parsons as a mail Delivery Person
Hiram Garcia as Clemente Gunchie, Marlene's ex-husband that teaches art and gym at Chuglass High School.
Batanai Mashingaidze as Matty The Waitress, an employee at the resturant that Marlene and the nitwit go to.
Amanda Billing portrays Henry's Mother, who is not named.
Tommy Broadmore as Trevor, one of Henry's bullies.
Frankie Creagh-Leslie as an unnamed friend of Trevor.
Alison Quigan and John Smythe as Chuggy executives at Chuglass Potato Chips
Alex Tunui as the Secretary of Chuglass High School
Craig McKinney as the Miner.
Joel Rindelaub as the Arcade Judge
Antony DeGreat and Victor Kazaroho as gamers
Rowan Bacal as Greta
Brennen Standing as Leo
Dylan Chitekwe as Miles
Jens Bergensten, the chief creative officer at Mojang Studios, makes a cameo appearance as a waiter at the restaurant that Marlene and the nitwit go to. Torfi Frans Ólafsson, the creative director at Mojang Studios, makes a cameo appearance as a student in Natalie's self-defense class.
YouTubers DanTDM, Mumbo Jumbo, LDShadowLady and Aphmau also make cameos in the film as attendants of Daryl's auction. Valkyrae was also scheduled to make a cameo, however her cameo was cut.

Production
Development
Following a series of offers from Hollywood producers to create a Minecraft-related television series and a crowdfunding campaign for a fan film that was shut down by Markus Persson, Notch announced on February 27, 2014 that Mojang Studios was working with Warner Bros. to make a Minecraft film, saying on Twitter that he wanted to be the one to leak it out. That same day, it was reported that Roy Lee and Jill Messick were added as producers.
On October 8, 2014, Vu Bui stated that the movie was in "its early days of development", saying that it was a "large-budget production" and that it was planned to release within three to four years. Later that same month, it was reported that Shawn Levy would direct the film, but he soon left the project along with Kieran and Michele Mulroney, who were serving as writers, due to creative differences and scheduling conflicts. It was reported that Levy and the Mulroney's vision for the film didn't mesh well with what Mojang was looking for. Levy would later state in an interview that he envisioned a Minecraft film as an adventure movie with a Goonies flair.
On July 21, 2015, Vu Bui announced that Rob McElhenney would serve as the director of the film.
On June 27, 2016, Mojang Studios announced the title and release date for Minecraft: The Movie by showing the front cover of the script and publicly announcing a release date of May 24, 2019.
On October 13, 2016, it was reported that Jason Fuchs would be writing the script alongside McElhenney. Producer Jill Messick committed suicide on February 7, 2018, making Minecraft: The Movie the last movie she worked on.
On August 3, 2018, it was reported that Rob McElhenney and Jason Fuchs were replaced by writing duo Aaron and Adam Nee to rewrite the script. The film was taken off the release schedule as a result of the replacement. McElhenney would later state that he was drawn to the film because of the game's open-world nature and revealing that Warner Bros. had provided him with a preliminary $150 million budget. Studios in Vancouver were booked for filming by that point, but it "slowly died on the vine" when studio head Greg Silverman was replaced by Toby Emmerich, who had a different vision for the film.
On January 3, 2019, it was reported that Jim Berney has been appointed for the film's visual effects. Later that same month, it was reported that Peter Sollett would write and direct the film, with Jon Berg being added as a producer, and Jon Spaihts being added as an executive producer, along with information about the plot revolving around the Ender Dragon destroying the Overworld. This information would be confirmed the following April in a blog post made on Minecraft.net, announcing that the film would be released on March 4, 2022. On June 24, 2019, it was reported that Allison Schroeder would be co-writing the latest script with Sollett for the film.
On April 18, 2022, it was reported that Sollett had departed the project, with Jared Hess taking over to direct the film while Chris Bowman and Hubbel Palmer were set to write the latest script. Lydia Winters and Mary Parent were also added as producers, while Cale Boyter was also added as an executive producer. Hess would later state that he would be attempting to avoid "an ugly Sonic situation", referencing the first trailer for the first Sonic the Hedgehog film, and said that he wouldn’t want to disappoint anyone regarding his vision for the film.
On April 5, 2023, it was reported that the film is now slated to release on April 4, 2025.
On May 23, 2023, it was reported that Jason Momoa and Torfi Frans Olafsson were added as producers.
On January 14, 2024, Jared Hess would confirm in an interview that Grant Major had been hired to work on production design for the film.

Casting
In November 2016, it was reported that Steve Carell was in talks to star in the film, but he left the project due to scheduling conflicts.
In April 2022, it was reported that Jason Momoa was in talks to star in the film.
In May 2023, it was reported that Matt Berry was in talks to star in the film.
In November 2023, it was reported that Danielle Brooks and Sebastian Eugene Hansen were in talks to star in the film as the characters Dawn and Henry, respectively. The following month, it was reported that Emma Myers was also in talks to star. Jack Black would later join the cast as Steve in January 2024 alongside Jennifer Coolidge, Kate McKinnon, and Jemaine Clement. Jack Black was originally cast as a talking pig, but his character was changed to Steve late in the film's development.
In September 2024, Valkyrae revealed she had a role in the film, but it was cut from the final version.

Filming
The photo posted on Instagram showing Momoa, Black and other members after filming had wrapped
In June 2023, it was reported that filming was slated to begin in August 2023 in New Zealand, however it was delayed to January 2024 due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike. Filming officially began that month and wrapped on April 12, 2024, with Jason Momoa posting a photo of some of the cast and crew on Instagram to mark the occasion.
Principal photography for A Minecraft Movie was conducted entirely in New Zealand, primarily based in the Auckland region, with on-location shooting in towns such as Huntly and Helensville. Auckland served as the production's central hub, where studios and local environments were adapted to represent both real-world and fantastical Minecraft biomes. Huntly doubled for the fictional town of Chuglass, Idaho, while Helensville provided retro-town visuals used in sequences involving an arcade and other character-centric locales. Approximately 85% of the crew were New Zealand-based, with production designer Grant Major (The Lord of the Rings, King Kong) leading the translation of Minecraft’s digital look into physical sets.
A behind-the-scenes documentary titled A Minecraft Movie: Made in New Zealand highlights the scale of local involvement and showcases set construction, design challenges, and the integration of Kiwi talent.

Post-production
Sony Pictures Imageworks, Wētā FX, and Digital Domain provided visual effects for the film, alongside Dan Lemmon serving as visual effects supervisor. James Thomas is the film's editor.

Music
Main articles: Movie:A Minecraft Movie (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) and Movie:I...Am Steve (Bonus Songs from "A Minecraft Movie" Soundtrack)
In September 2024, it was announced that Mark Mothersbaugh would compose the score for the film. A promotional song, "I Feel Alive", performed by Jack Black, was released on March 19, 2025.
The soundtrack was released on March 28, 2025, featuring the score as composed by Mark Mothersbaugh, in addition to songs performed by Jack Black, Dirty Honey, Dayglow, BENEE, Bret McKenzie, and Jamieson Shaw.
Additionally, the movie featured the following tracks:

"Dragon Fish" by C418
"Pigstep" by Lena Raine
"Comforting Memories" by Kumi Tanioka
"We Gotta Party" by Jag Team
"I Remember You" by Skid Row
"Lil Boo Thang" by Paul Russell
"Private Idaho" by The B-52s
Release
Theatrical
The film was distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures and was theatrically released in the United States on April 4, 2025. It was originally scheduled to be released on May 24, 2019, but it was then taken off the release schedule in August 2018 due to the aforementioned replacement of McElhenney and Fuchs. In April 2019, it was announced that the film would be released on March 4, 2022, but it was again taken off the release schedule in October 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with The Batman taking its place. The movie then moved to its current release date of April 4, 2025, in April 2023. It was released April 2–4, 2025, globally.

Home media
On May 7, 2025, it was announced that the film would be released on digital storefronts on May 13, 2025. The digital film contains some behind the scenes videos, including Building the World of Minecraft: Block Party, Creepers, Zombies, and Endermen Oh My!, Pixel Pals, Block Beats, and Marlene + Nitwit.
On May 13, 2025, it was announced that the film would be released physically in DVD, Blu-ray, and 4K Ultra HD formats on June 24, 2025.

Marketing
On September 4, 2024, a teaser trailer and a poster were released. These are what first revealed the film's title, characters, and look.
On September 28, 2024, at Minecraft Live 2024, a talk about the film with Torfi Frans Ofalsson and Jared Hess was featured, as well as behind-the-scenes footage and a short clip from the film.
On November 18, 2024, a short behind the scenes video was released, along with a caption announcing a new trailer releasing on November 19.
On November 19, 2024, a full trailer and a second teaser poster were released.
On February 27, 2025, the final trailer and theatrical posters were released.

Videos
Trailers

















Behind the scenes

















Other

































Reception
Box office
On March 21, 2025, A Minecraft Movie was projected to gross $60–75 million in the United States and Canada on its opening weekend. Further projections in April estimated the film to gross a total of $140 million worldwide in its opening weekend.
Domestically, the film grossed $10.55 million in Thursday night previews, and grossed $47.45 million on opening day, for a domestic total of $58 million at that point.
In the film's opening weekend, it over-performed expectations and grossed $301 million worldwide, surpassing Nacho Libre as Jared Hess' highest-grossing film and being the #1 film at the domestic box office. In its second weekend, the film's gross increased to $550 million, surpassing Sonic the Hedgehog 3 as the second-highest grossing film based on a video game, behind The Super Mario Bros. Movie. In its third weekend, it dropped from the top spot domestically, but its gross increased to $720 million. By its fourth weekend, the film's gross increased to $816 million, and by its sixth, it increased further to $909 million. In its seventh weekend, the film's gross increased slightly to $928 million.

Critical response
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 47% of 196 critics' reviews are positive. The website's consensus reads: "Ostensibly a film about celebrating creativity, A Minecraft Movie provides a colorful sandbox for Jack Black and Jason Momoa to amusingly romp around in a story curiously constructed from conventional building blocks." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 45 out of 100, based on 40 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews. Audience reactions to the film were more positive in comparison to critics; CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale, while 67% of those surveyed by PostTrak said they would definitely recommend the film. Kids under the age of 12 gave the film an average rating of five out of five stars, while parents gave an average of four and a half out of five stars. Per the audience score on Rotten Tomatoes, 84% of over ten-thousand audience reviews were positive, with the website's consensus stating: "Beyond being a fertile meme-factory, A Minecraft Movie proves how much fun two men with beards can bring to the sandbox."
Critics were divided on the film's plot and whether or not A Minecraft Movie was a faithful adaptation of the game, as well as if it made sense to viewers unfamiliar with it. Lovia Gyarkye of The Hollywood Reporter and Jesse Hassenger of IGN both believed that the film's plot was confusing. Gyarkye felt that it struggled to maintain an ethos because it lacked "a clear sense of its own stakes and intended audience", and Hassenger said that the film's plot was "conceptually muddy" and "confusingly and erratically presented" as a combination of multiple plot points. Mark Kennedy of the Associated Press believed that the film would likely make no sense to a viewer unfamiliar with the source material, but he still believed that it was a faithful adaptation. However, he did highlight the films featuring concepts not present within the game itself to enable plot progression. Contrarily, Liz Shannon Miller of Consequence believed that the plot was fully comprehensible to someone unfamiliar with the game. Some reviewers viewed the fan service present within the film positively, particularly highlighting the tribute to Technoblade.
The performances of the cast were praised. Many viewed their performances as helping alleviate or distract any problems present within the film's plot. Black and Momoa, in particular, received a lot of praise. Miller and Jordan Hoffman of Entertainment Weekly both felt that the story was not the main priority of the film and could be ignored in favor of the performance of the actors, the former believing that the film was mainly made with the intent of having fun. However, some viewed that the characters, despite the performances of their actors, were generally underdeveloped. The sub-plot involving Coolidge's character dating a villager, while viewed as generally unnecessary or relatively thin in terms of character development, was subject to considerable praise.
Some reviewers questioned the purpose or value of the film, with some viewing it as nothing more than a product with the intent of promoting Minecraft. Both Kevin Maher of The Times and David Fear of Rolling Stone likened the film to a corporate cash-grab, viewing it as existing with the sole purpose of promoting the Minecraft brand and offering nothing else of value. Maher further viewed the film as "an unapologetic cranium-crusher", while Fear believed that the film was intentionally confusing so that it would stay in the minds of people longer, and therefore encourage them to purchase merchandise. While Clarisse Loughrey of The Independent believed that the idea behind a live-action Minecraft adaptation was fundamentally flawed and destroyed the spirit of the source material, she felt that the film had "genuine intent" and was not like other adaptations that she viewed as existing solely for the sake of profit.

Cinema reactions
See also: Movie:Chicken Jockey sensation

In theatres, fans would cheer whenever any of Black's lines from the trailer were said in the film, such as "I am Steve", "Flint and steel!", and most notably, "Chicken jockey!". In one example of the latter, someone had brought in a live chicken to a screening in Provo, Utah, subsequently being removed from the showing.
Observers would later note that the reactions to the film were becoming a cultural phenomenon, comparing it to screenings of The Rocky Horror Picture Show and The Room.
Warner Bros. would later capitalize on the trend by announcing a "Block Party Edition" of the film, which was shown in theaters from May 2, 2025 until the end of its theatrical run.

Accolades

Award show

Date of ceremony

Category

Nominee(s)

Result

References

2025 Golden Trailer Awards

May 29, 2025

Best Animation/Family

Warner Bros. Pictures, Buddha Jones (for "Adventure")

Nominated

Best Animation/Family TV Spot for a Feature Film

Warner Bros. Pictures, Buddha Jones (for "Be Mine")

Nominated

Best Fantasy Adventure TV Spot for a Feature Film

Nominated

Best Digital – Animation/Family

Nominated

Best Comedy/Drama TrailerByte for a Feature Film

Warner Bros. Pictures, AV Squad (for "You Died")

Won

Best Billboard for Feature Film or TV/Streaming Series

Warner Bros. Pictures, WORKS ADV (for "Minecraft Billboard")

Nominated

2025 Kids' Choice Awards

June 21, 2025

Favorite Movie

A Minecraft Movie

Nominated

Favorite Movie Actor

Jack Black

Won

Jason Momoa

Nominated

Favorite Movie Actress

Emma Myers

Nominated

Favorite Butt-Kicker

Won

Jack Black

Nominated

Favorite Song from a Movie

"I Feel Alive" - Jack Black

Nominated

2025 Golden Joystick Awards

November 20, 2025

Best Game Adaptation

A Minecraft Movie

Nominated

The Game Awards 2025

December 11, 2025

Best Adaptation

Nominated

7th SCL Awards

February 6, 2026

Outstanding Original Song for a Comedy or Musical

"I Feel Alive"

Nominated

"Steve's Lava Chicken"

Nominated

53rd Annie Awards

February 21, 2026

Best Character Animation – Live Action

A Minecraft MovieWētā FX (Kevin Estey, Anthony McIndoe, Jade Lorier, Caroline Ting, Luisma Lavin Peredo)

Nominated

24th Visual Effects Society Awards

February 25, 2026

Outstanding Character in a Photoreal Feature

A Minecraft MovieQueen Malgosha (Kevin Estey, Fabio Leporelli, Matteo Stirati, Nick Grace)

Nominated

16th GMS Awards

February 28, 2026

Best Music Supervision in Major Budget Films

A Minecraft Movie (Gabe Hilfer, Karyn Rachtman)

Nominated

53rd Saturn Awards

March 8, 2026

Best Cinematic Adaptation

A Minecraft Movie

Nominated

30th Webby Awards

May 11, 2026

Best Television and Film - General Social

Warner Bros. (for "A Minecraft Movie Theatrical Social Campaign")

Nominated



Best AR or Immervise Experience - Social Features

Warner Bros. (for "A Minecraft Movie Hologram Box + Lenses")

Won

Best Media & Entertainment - Branded Content

Wieder + Kennedy (for "A Minecraft Movie Meal")

Won

Sequel
Main article: A Minecraft Movie Squared
On March 30, 2025, during the green carpet premiere, Jared Hess expressed interest in the idea of making a sequel, noting the world's use of infinite mods, characters, and biomes, outlining how Minecraft is virtually endless. He later stated that there were many ideas they had for the film that they were unable to use, but he would likely be included as part of a sequel.
On April 2, 2025, Jack Black, the actor for Steve, and Jason Momoa, the actor for Garret Garrison, were asked many questions in a Q&A for the movie. Black was asked if he would be playing Herobrine in a sequel. His response was "Dude, you want to know if there’s Hero Brian in the sequel? We don’t know. We don't know... I hope so."
On April 4, 2025, Emma Myers and Sebastian Hansen told Yahoo UK how likely they thought a sequel would be. Emma said that she would love to do as many as they want, saying "Oh yeah, please. Minecraft 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 — as many as they'll have me in I would love to do!". Sebastian revealed that it would be "great [to] keep it going" but he also is unsure how it could go about because of the way in which the movie tells a story entirely new to the world of the game so that means a potential sequel could go anywhere and do anything, which is an overwhelming concept.
On April 8, 2025, Jared Hess said that there were talks about a sequel in development. On April 11, 2025, it was reported by several outlets that a sequel is in early development. A day later, the CEO of Warner Bros. confirmed that there will be a follow-up film.
At the end of an interview discussing the film, the VFX supervisor Sheldon Stopsack and the animation supervisor Kevin Estey both refer to a hypothetical sequel as "Another Minecraft Movie". is already in early development.
On October 9, 2025, the official A Minecraft Movie Twitter account posted a teaser of two iron pickaxes on a crafting table announcing that a sequel was set to release on July 23, 2027. It was referred to as A Minecraft Sequel at CinemaCon on April 14, 2026.
On May 30, 2026, during Minecraft Live, the name was officially revealed to be A Minecraft Movie Squared.

Trivia
A Minecraft Movie was briefly shelved during its development.
On Twitter/X, Jeb teased that the piglins in the movie survive in the Overworld by using Nether wart in the same way as the piglins from Minecraft Legends.
Jared Hess's reasoning of naming the film A Minecraft Movie as opposed to The Minecraft Movie was that "the game does not have a definitive way to play; there are an overwhelming amount of stories that can be told in Minecraft, and he states that is simply one of those stories".
In the film, a snippet of "Minecraft" by C418 can be heard.
During the Midport Village introduction scene, a pig is seen wearing a crown, which Steve states is a "legend". This is a tribute to late YouTuber Technoblade, who passed away from his battle with sarcoma cancer mid-2022. In a later interview, it was revealed that Sebastian Hansen, who plays Henry in the film, was the one to suggest the reference.
During the enderman nightmare scene, Steve is shown with white eyes similarly to Herobrine. When asked about it, Torfi Frans Olafsson joked that it was unintentional.
Gallery
Promotional artwork



			Logo for the film



			Logo for the film, including the release date



			Theatrical release poster



			Alternate square variation of theatrical release poster



			Alternate horizontal theatrical release poster



			Textless horizontal theatrical release poster



			Teaser poster featuring a close up of a creeper's face



			International teaser poster



			Horizontal teaser poster



			Teaser poster featuring a bee



			Horizontal variation of the bee poster



			Alternate horizontal bee poster



			International bee poster



			Textless version of the bee poster



			IMAX poster



			RealD 3D poster



			4DX poster



			ScreenX poster



			Welcome to the overworld Travel poster



			Poster released to notify that the film was set to release one month from then



			Secondary IMAX poster featuring their Los Angeles offices



			A promotional poster representing the Dune: Part Two poster



			The Overworld



			Steve, as depicted in the movie



			Garrett



			Natalie



			Dawn



			A creeper



			A pink sheep



			A bee



			A llama



			A zombie



			A skeleton



			Nitwit



			A chicken jockey


Screenshots



			Steve pulling out the Earth Crystal



			Steve assembling the Earth Cube



			Steve building with dirt blocks



			Steve building villager heads



			Steve's World



			Steve in front of the entrance of his theme park



			Steve dancing with pandas and cows



			Steve approaching a ruined portal



			Steve repairing the portal



			The ruined portal activated



			Steve emerging from the ruined portal



			Piglins in the Nether looking at Steve. Malgosha can be seen in the background.



			A group of piglins becoming zombified



			Garrett playing Hunk City Rampage



			Natalie and Henry driving to their house



			The potato chip factory being destroyed by the jetpack



			The Overworld, as depicted in the movie



			The nitwit entering the earth portal



			Two bees flying over trees



			Garrett talking to a pink sheep



			A wolf howling



			A skeleton lurking in the foliage



			A spider jockey aiming a bow



			A spider jockey leaping.



			A creeper behind Garrett, ready to explode



			A zombie approaching Garrett



			A creeper exploding near zombies



			The nitwit on the road



			The nitwit getting hit by Marlene's car



			Midport Village



			Villagers



			Multiple villagers and an armorer near farms



			A wandering trader behind Garrett



			The Technoblade pig



			An iron golem in the village



			The square of the village



			Steve pulling a lever



			A view of the Nether



			A collection of items inside Steve's Secret Stash



			A Totem of Undying and ender pearl in a chest



			Garrett throwing the pearl



			Steve entering the stash's forge



			An iron sword on a crafting table



			Steve holding the iron sword



			Garrett dumping iron ingots onto the table



			Garrett crafting the buck-chuckets



			Henry crafting the Potato Launcher



			The crafting recipe for the potato launcher



			Ghasts arriving at Midport Village



			An angry mob of various piglins, including General Chungus up front



			Garrett fighting General Chungus with the Buck-Chuckets



			Natalie fighting a piglin with a hoe



			A ghast shooting a fireball



			The fireball destroying part of the square



			A librarian and a cleric running from the explosion



			Steve equipping elytra on Henry and Garrett



			Piglins riding Ghasts



			A ghast chasing Henry



			A group of hoglin riders chasing Steve and Garrett



			A Ghast preparing to shoot a fireball



			Henry dodging an explosion



			Pandas in a jungle



			Steve holding a water bucket



			The nitwit at a restaurant



			The minecart escaping from the Creeper Farm



			The Great Hog in the Creeper Farm



			The Redstone Mines exploding



			The minecart speeding on a bridge



			A chicken and vindicators



			The fighting ring of the woodland mansion



			The second Earth Crystal in a chest



			An enderman in the treasure room



			Herobrine



			Steve, Garrett, and Henry escaping the mansion



			Garrett facing piglins holding TNT



			Natalie crafting a diamond sword



			Natalie building iron golems



			An army of golems marching towards the piglin army



			The heroes and villagers together



			Steve meeting Alex


GIFs



			A logo.


Behind-the-scenes



			Front cover of an early iteration of the script, with the working title Minecraft: The Movie



			Rob McElhenney at Minecon



			Jack Black "preparing" for his role



			Cast and director after filming



			The clapper for the film







			The set for the village



			Ditto but with Jens



			A sign



			A cartography table



			The floating tree prop



			Jack Black next to some diamonds



			A block of stone







			Mumbo Jumbo on set



			Jens next to a ruby banner



			The mine set being constructed















			The Skull and Roses painting



			The Wither painting



			The Woodland Mansion set



			The hallway of the mansion



			The Woodland Mansion set



			A painting in the Woodland Mansion



			An iron golem structure



			Four more iron golem structures







			Emma next to her stunt double



			Mumbo Jumbo wearing a golden helmet



			Villager costumes



			A collection of pickaxes and shovels














Concept artwork



			Early Creeper exploration concept art



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Early creeper exploding sequence exploration concept art



			Ditto



			Creeper fuse lighting up concept art



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Creeper exploding concept art



			Creeper concept art



			A variant



			B variant



			D variant



			H variant



			J variant



			M variant



			T variant



			Concept art for dozens of unique piglin characters.



			Malgosha



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Great Hog



			Great Hog sketches



			Ditto



			Ditto



			General Chungus



			Ditto



			General Chungus sketches



			Ditto



			Archie



			Snowball



			Piglins



			Piglin squealers



			Grunter



			Ditto



			Brutea



			Oinkiver



			Piglin sketches with Minecraft Legends concept art as reference



			Ditto



			Ghasts



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Nitwit



			Ditto



			Nitwit about to get hit by a car



			Nitwit villager on a date



			Villager



			Villagers and Jason Momoa size comparison



			Baby villagers



			Baby villagers jumping on beds



			Villager face



			Cartographer villager



			Blacksmith villager



			Sheep



			Gray sheep



			Pink sheep



			Brown sheep



			Llama



			Super Iron Golem



			Technoblade



			Bee



			Villager



			Minecart



			Crafting Table



			Sword



			Gargoyle



			Elytra



			Blaze



			Ocelot



			Chicken



			Enderman



			Enderman



			Iron Golem



			Ditto



			Skeleton



			Skeleton running concept art



			Skeleton faces concept art



			Skeleton body concept art



			Spider jockey concept art



			Spider jockey sketches



			Ditto



			Spider



			Ditto



			Villager



			Villager



			Zombie



			Different zombie concept art



			Zombie in forest concept art



			Zombie face concept art



			Ditto



			Chicken Jockey concept art



			Baby zombie faces concept art



			Pig



			Ender Dragon



			Dragon Head



			Ender Dragon



			Ender Dragon



			Earth Portal



			Ditto



			Nether



			Ditto



			Overworld



			Ditto



			Overworld concept art



			Ditto



			Earth Crystal



			Henry's Shelter



			Midport Village



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Midport Village Attack



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Redstone Mine



			Village Armory



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Woodland Mansion



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Redstone Mountains



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Redstone Mountains Bridge



			A minecart speeding over an ocean with a squid in the water



			Ditto



			Crafting Table


Storyboards



			Ghasts on piglins chasing Henry



			Woodland mansion chicken jockey fight scene



			Elytra scene



			A human in the End



			A human removing their hood



			A human's hood being down, revealing their hair



			A human looking up



			An enderman getting agitated



			An enderman teleporting behind a human and leveling an attack



			An enderman getting slashed by a human


Notes

 Posthumous credit – Messick committed suicide in February 2018.

 While the physcial awards show was set for May 11, 2026, winners were announced beforehand on April 21, 2026.

 Won People’s Voice vote; Tied Webby Vote with Goodby Silverstein & Partners for "Moon Punch" for Capri-Sun

References

 "WarnerBros.com | A Minecraft Movie | Movies"     – Warner Bros. Pictures.

 https://youtube.com/watch?v=4QxcdVrXfyc&t=131

 https://youtube.com/watch?v=ZCDD-HFLZ18&t=29

 https://youtube.com/watch?v=x8GJ6pwB1mo&t=146

 https://www.flicks.co.nz/news/a-minecraft-movie-new-zealand-trailer-and-release-date/

 https://www.facebook.com/photo?fbid=1112030977622457

 https://www.amctheatres.com/movies/a-minecraft-movie-46029

 "Search"     – Motion Picture Association.

 "A Minecraft Movie | BBFC"     – British Board of Film Classifications, 3 March 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie | Australian Classification"     – Australian Classification, 20 October 2025.

 "Box Office: ‘Minecraft Movie’ Tracking for Decent $58M Opening"     by Pamela McClintock  – The Hollywood Reporter, March 13, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie (2025) - The Numbers"     – The Numbers.

 "A Minecraft Movie (2025) - Box Office Mojo"     – Box Office Mojo.

 "Minecraft - WGA Directory"     – WGA Directory, 31 January 2025.

 "Jason Momoa, Jack Black, Danielle Brooks, Jennifer Coolidge & more are coming to London on March 30 for the World Premiere of #MinecraftMovie 🙌"  – @WarnerBrosUK  on X (formerly Twitter), March 10, 2025

  "A Minecraft Movie | Teaser"  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, September 4, 2024

 "Stuck in the 80s. Huge fan of pink. Looks good. Could use a hug."  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, November 19, 2024

 "A Minecraft Movie | Official Trailer"  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, November 19, 2024

 "The only limit is his imagination. #MinecraftMovie - only in theaters 2025."  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, November 19, 2024

 https://www.sportskeeda.com/minecraft/all-voice-actors-cast-roles-a-minecraft-movie#:~:text=Sebastian%20Eugene%20Hansen%20%2D%20Henry&text=Sebastian%20Hansen%20is%20another%20protagonist,first%20entered%20the%20game's%20world.

 "Kickin' axe in the Overworld. #MinecraftMovie - only in theaters 2025."  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, November 19, 2024

 "A Minecraft Movie | Final Trailer"  – Warner Bros. Pictures on YouTube, February 27, 2025

 "New Minecraft Movie Trailer Reveals Its Villain, Free In-Game Jetpack Coming For Some Ticket Buyers"     by Eddie Makuch  – GameSpot, February 27, 2025.

 "Got to visit Hobbiton! 💜 Such a fun trip to New Zealand with @dantdm @ldshadowlady @officialmumbo and @valkyrae! Such awesome folks! Need to take more pics with ya next time Rae! 🥹💜" – @aphmau_ on Instagram, March 25, 2024

 "Streamer Valkyrae Cut From A Minecraft Movie: 'I Would Much Rather Not Have That 30 Seconds Than Be Sued'"     by Wesley Yin-Poole  – IGN, April 7, 2025.

 "Minecraft hits $80M in sales with over 5M paid downloads"     by Stephany Nunneley  – VG247, March 24, 2012.

 "Minecraft Movie 'The Birth of Man' Nixed by Notch"     by Seth G. Macy  – IGN, February 7, 2014.

 "Someone is trying leak the fact that we're working with Warner Brothers on a potential Minecraft Movie. I wanted to be the leak!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), February 27, 2014

 "Video Game Sensation 'Minecraft' Coming To The Big Screen As Warner Bros Acquires Rights; 'Lego's' Roy Lee And Jill Messick Producing"     by Anita Busch  – Deadline Hollywood, February 27, 2014.

 "Minecraft movie will be 'large-budget' but unlikely to arrive before 2017"     by Stuart Dredge  – The Guardian, October 9, 2014.

 "Shawn Levy Boards 'Minecraft' Movie"     by Mike Fleming Jr.  – Deadline Hollywood, October 16, 2014.

 "Shawn Levy Leaves Warner Bros.' 'Minecraft' Film"     by Justin Kroll  – Variety, December 9, 2014.

 "'Minecraft' Movie: Why Director Shawn Levy Left"  – Wall Street Journal on YouTube, December 12, 2014

 "We’ve chosen a director for the Minecraft movie!"     by Vu Bui  – Mojang, July 21, 2015.

 "THE MINECRAFT MOVIE HAS A RELEASE DATE!"     by Vu Bui  – Mojang, June 27, 2016.

 "'Wonder Woman' Scribe Jason Fuchs to Write Latest Draft of 'Minecraft' (Exclusive)"     by Justin Kroll  – Variety, October 13, 2016.

  "Peter Sollett to Direct Warner Bros.' 'Minecraft' Movie (Exclusive)"     by Justin Kroll  – Variety, January 11, 2019.

 "'Minecraft' Movie Delayed: Rob McElhenney Out as Director, Nee Brothers Tapped to Write (Exclusive)"     by Umberto Gonzalez and Tony Maglio  – The Wrap, August 3, 2018.

 "How Rob McElhenney's $150 Million Minecraft Movie Fell Apart After 2.5 Years Of Work"     by Eddie Makuch  – GameSpot, February 23, 2020.

 "Always Sunny's Rob McElhenney explains what went wrong for his $150 Million Minecraft movie"     by Emily Gera  – VG247, February 24, 2020.

 "Minecraft: The Movie after Significant Delays Finds its Visual Effects Supervisor"     – Miami Morning Star, January 5, 2019.

 "THE MINECRAFT MOVIE IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, April 16, 2019.(archived)

 "'Frozen 2' Writer Allison Schroeder Tackling 'Minecraft' Movie"     by Borys Kit  – The Hollywood Reporter, June 24, 2019.

 Jason Momoa Reportedly In Talks to Join Minecraft Movie - The Direct; April 18, 2022

 Jason Momoa In Early Talks To Star In 'Minecraft'; Jared Hess Directing Video Game Adaptation For Warner Bros. – Deadline Hollywood; April 18, 2022

 What happened after 'Napoleon Dynamite' — and the big movie its Utah filmmakers are making next – The Salt Lake Tribune; January 14, 2024

 'Aquaman 2' Shifts Release Date Five Days Earlier, Warner Bros Dates 'The Wise Guys', 'Minecraft' – Deadline Hollywood; April 5, 2023

 Matt Berry In Talks To Join Jason Momoa In Warner Bros' 'Minecraft' – Deadline Hollywood; May 23, 2023

 Steve Carell in Talks to Join ‘Minecraft’ Movie at Warner Bros. (EXCLUSIVE) – Variety; November 15, 2016

 ‘Minecraft’: Warner Bros Movie Adds Danielle Brooks & Sebastian Eugene Hansen – Deadline Hollywood; November 30, 2023

 'Minecraft': 'Wednesday' Star Emma Myers Digs Into Warner Bros Movie – Deadline Hollywood; December 6, 2023

 Jack Black Levels Up For 'Minecraft' At Warner Bros – Deadline Hollywood; January 2, 2024

 "Warner Bros’ Jason Momoa 'Minecraft' Movie Finds Gem In Jennifer Coolidge – ;"     by Anthony D'Alessandro  – Deadline Hollywood, January 17, 2024.

 Kate McKinnon & Jemaine Clement Join Jason Momoa ‘Minecraft’ Gang At Warner Bros – Deadline Hollywood; January 18, 2024

 "Crafting a Blockbuster: How ‘A Minecraft Movie’ Brought the Wacky, Cubic Video Game to Life"     by Jennifer Mass and Katcy Stephan  – Variety, March 19, 2025.

 "Valkyrae Speaks On Bad Experience Working With Jason Momoa.."  – September 14, 2024 on YouTube

 "Valkyrae reveals awkward on-set encounter with Jason Momoa in Minecraft movie"     – IGN, April 7, 2025.

 Live-Action ‘Minecraft’ Movie Set To Begin Filming Soon, First Location Revealed (Report) – Covered Geekly; June 25, 2023

 Jason Momoa (prideofgypsies) on Instagram: "MINECRAFT WE ARE WRAPPING All my aloha to my crew and cast. Unbelievable movie experience truly one of the greatest times of my life. Too many laughs. I love this country. AOTEAROA New Zealand you are magical. Mahalo for letting me film here. SPECIAL PRESENT TO OUR CREW from @slowtide and @soill in support of @peoplesfundofmaui." – April 12, 2024

 "A Minecraft Movie"     – New Zealand Film Commission.

 "A Minecraft Movie: Made in New Zealand | Behind the Scenes"  – New Zealand Film Commission on YouTube, April 13, 2025

 "A Minecraft Movie | Sony Pictures Imageworks"     – www.imageworks.com.

 https://www.artofvfx.com/a-minecraft-movie/

 "A Minecraft Movie Soundtrack | I Feel Alive (Official Lyric Video) - Jack Black | WaterTower Music"  – WaterTower Music on YouTube, March 19, 2025

 https://music.apple.com/us/album/a-minecraft-movie-original-motion-picture-soundtrack/1801499693

 'The Batman' Delays Release to 2022 as Warner Bros. Shuffles Calendar – The Hollywood Reporter; October 5, 2020


Release info - A Minecraft Movie - IMDB

 "Lose your chicken-jockeying mind with #MinecraftMovie - available on Digital 5/13!"  – @AMinecraftMovie  on X (formerly Twitter), May 7, 2025

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Releases on Digital, Sets DVD/4K Ultra HD Steelbook Release Date"     by Rudie Obias  – Variety, May 13, 2025.

 "A new kind of block-buster. #MinecraftMovie - only in theaters 2025."  – @AMinecraftMovie  on X (formerly Twitter), September 4, 2024

 "Minecraft Live 2024: A MINECRAFT MOVIE | EXCLUSIVE INSIGHT"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 28, 2024

 "A world only you can make. #MinecraftMovie trailer tomorrow."  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), November 18, 2024

 "Long Range Forecast: Can SINNERS Bring New Life to the April Box Office?"     by Boxoffice Staff  – Boxoffice Pro, March 21, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Looks To Build $140M+ Global Gold Mine In Barren Desert Box Office – Preview"     by Anthony D'Alessandro and Nancy Tartaglione  – Deadline Hollywood, April 2, 2025.

 "Box Office: 'A Minecraft Movie' Makes $10.55 Million in Previews"     by Jordan Moreau  – Variety, April 4, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Mania Grips Nation, Opening Now At $135M+ For Warner Bros Legendary Pic – Update"     by Anthony D'Alessandro  – Deadline Hollywood, April 5, 2025.

 "Warner Bros’ A Minecraft Movie Smashes Box Office Estimates, Increasing Sequel Potential"     by TipRanks  – Market Insider, April 7, 2025.

 "Box Office: ‘Minecraft’ Mints More Gold With $80.6M, ‘King of Kings’ Leads New Films With $19M"     by Pamela McClintock  – The Hollywood Reporter, April 13, 2025.

 "‘A Minecraft Movie’ Builds To $721M Global, ‘Sinners’ Feasts On $61M WW Bow – International Box Office"     by Nancy Tartaglione  – Deadline Hollywood, April 20, 2025.

 "‘Minecraft’ On Another Level With $817M Global, ‘Sinners’ Holdover Halo Takes WW To $162M, ‘Revenge Of The Sith’ Galactic At $42M+ Reissue & ‘Accountant 2’ Puts $38M On The Books – International Box Office"     by Nancy Tartaglione  – Deadline Hollywood, April 27, 2025.

 "‘Thunderbolts*’ Nears $300M Global As Does ‘Sinners’; ‘Minecraft’s Whole Lotta Lava Tops $900M WW & $500M Overseas – International Box Office"     by Nancy Tartaglione  – Deadline Hollywood, May 11, 2025.

 "‘Final Destination Bloodlines’ Arrives With $102M Global Bow; ‘Thunderbolts*’ & ‘Sinners’ Top $300M WW – International Box Office"     by Nancy Tartaglione  – Deadline Hollywood, May 18, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Retrieved April 9, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

 "Hollywood lands a much-needed box office hit with 'A Minecraft Movie'"     – ABC News.

 "Audience digs 'A Minecraft Movie'"     – Boston Herald, April 6, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Massive $100M+ U.S. Opening, Best YTD, Warner Bros & Legendary Resurrect Box Office – Update"     – Deadline, April 4, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Review: Jason Momoa and Jack Black Lead Unimaginative Video-Game Adventure Comedy"   (Archive), April 2, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie Review"   (Archive), April 3, 2025.

 "Movie Review: Jason Momoa shines in 'A Minecraft Movie'"   (Archive), April 3, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie Review: Worthy of Jack Black's Talents"     – Consequence, April 2, 2025.

 "With Jack Black and Jason Momoa aboard, 'A Minecraft Movie' roars"   (Archive), April 3, 2025.

 "Review: 'A Minecraft Movie' is a block of big dumb fun"     – Los Angeles Times, April 2, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie tries to construct a captivating tale, but falls off the rails"     – Polygon, April 2, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' review: Jason Momoa mines comedy gold in surprisingly well-crafted adaptation"     – EW.com.

 "A Minecraft Movie review — zero stars for this unforgivable disaster"   (Archive), April 3, 2025.

 "'A Minecraft Movie' Is Exactly What You Think It Will Be, and Less"     – Rolling Stone, April 3, 2025.

 "In A Minecraft Movie, Jack Black is like a desperate clown at an underattended children's party"   , April 2, 2025.

 "Minecraft Movie sparks raucous reactions from fans"     by Helen Bushby  – BBC News, April 8, 2025.

 "Provo fans brought a chicken to a ‘Minecraft’ screening and it went viral"     by Brock Merchant  – The Salt Lake Tribune, April 12, 2025.

 "Chicken jockey! A Minecraft Movie is causing chaos in cinemas and debate over audience etiquette"     by Natalie Stechyson  – CBC News, April 7, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie: Block Party Edition! - The Year’s BLOCKbuster Phenomenon gets Lyrical—Beginning Friday May 2, Audiences can Sing (and Meme) Along with 2025’s Biggest Hit!"     by Chelsey Summey  – Warner Bros. via Business Wire, April 28, 2025.

 "Golden Trailer Awards Nominations: ‘Wicked,’ ‘Deadpool & Wolverine’ & Disney Lead Field"     by Erik Pedersen  – Deadline Hollywood, May 8, 2025.

 "‘28 Year Later’ Tops the Golden Trailer Awards"     by Aaron Couch  – The Hollywood Reporter, May 29, 2025.

 "Grammy® Award-Winning, Multiplatinum Global Superstar Tyla To Host Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2025 — The Biggest Party Of The Summer — Live On Saturday, June 21, At 8 P.M. (ET/PT)"     – Paramount Press Express, May 15, 2025.

 "Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 leads the Golden Joystick Award 2025 charge for most nominations, nudging out Death Stranding 2, Ghost of Yotei, and Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2"     by Iain Harris  – GamesRadar, October 3, 2025.

 "Your nominees for Best Adaptation at #TheGameAwards:🏆 A Minecraft Movie🏆 Devil May Cry 🏆 The Last of Us: Season 2 🏆 Splinter Cell: Deathwatch 🏆 Until Dawn"  – @thegameawards  on X (formerly Twitter), November 17, 2025

 "Nominees Announced for 7th SCL Awards®"     – The Society of Composers and Lyricists, December 17, 2025.

 "2026 Annie Awards Nominations: ‘Elio,’ ‘KPop Demon Hunters’ Lead Film Nods"     by Hilary Lewis  – The Hollywood Reporter, January 5, 2026.

 "‘Avatar: Fire And Ash’ Lords Over All With 10 VES Awards Nominations"     by Erik Pedersen  – Deadline Hollywood, January 13, 2026.

 "‘SINNERS’ LEADS NOMINATIONS FOR 2026 GUILD OF MUSIC SUPERVISORS AWARDS: FULL LIST"     by Paul Grein  – Billboard, January 14, 2026.

 "‘Sinners’, ‘Avatar: Fire And Ash’, ‘Fantastic Four’ And ‘Dexter: Resurrection’ Lead Saturn Awards Nominations"     by Patrick Hipes  – Deadline Hollywood, January 27, 2026.

 "We’re thrilled to announce the 30th Annual Webby Winners! ⭐️🏆From boundary pushing campaigns to creators shaping what we watch and share, this year’s Winners represent what it takes to break through online, and what it means to say “We Made It” 🙌This year’s Winners include companies, creators and campaigns from @claudeai @npr @joshjohnsoncomedy @pbs @duolingo @waymo @nbcsnl @kendricklamar @amypoehler @cashapp and many more!Explore all of this year’s Winners at the link in our bio and stories! 🛎️Be sure to tune in to our socials to experience the best moments from the #Webbys Show hosted by Josh Johnson on Monday, May 11!"     by The Webby Awards  – Instagram, April 21, 2026.

 "Webby Awards 2026 Nominations: Taylor Swift, Bad Bunny, Stephen Colbert & Timothée Chalamet Make The List"     by Greg Evans  – Deadline Hollywood, March 31, 2026.

 Screenshot for "A Minecraft Movie Meal" nomination can be found here

 "Top Best AR Filter or Immersive Experience: Social Features"     – Webby Awards, April 21, 2026.

 "Would #AMinecraftMovie director Jared Hess make a sequel?“Yes! It would be so much fun to go back into this world and go on another crazy adventure."variety.com/2025/film/global/jack-black-hosting-snl-20-years-night-terrors-1236352004/"  – @Variety  on X (formerly Twitter), March 30, 2025

 "A Minecraft Movie director Jared Hess says he’s interested in making a sequel: "There are so many amazing mods and characters and biomes we haven't explored yet""     – gamesradar.com, April 4, 2025.

 ""'A Minecraft Movie's Jared Hess Talks Sequel, The Man Crush Between Jack Black And Jason Momoa & Hitting Zeitgeist Gold Decades After 'Napoleon Dynamite'""     – deadline.com, April 7, 2025.

 "EXCLUSIVE: Jack Black & Jason Momoa answer questions from Utah kids ahead of ‘A Minecraft Movie’"     – abc4.com, April 2, 2025.

 "Will there be A Minecraft Movie 2? Cast share how likely a sequel will be"     – yahoo.com, April 4, 2025.

 "A MINECRAFT MOVIE Sequel Already In Talks After Record-Breaking Box Office Opening"     – Game Fragger, April 13, 2025.

 "A Minecraft Movie Sequel Is Reportedly Already In The Works"     – Comicbook.com, April 13, 2025.

 "Warner Bros suits confirm A Minecraft Movie will be getting a sequel: 'The ink might not be dry… but imminently'"     by Rich Stanton  – Pcgamer.com, April 14, 2025. ""It was a complete win for everyone involved.""

 "A Minecraft Movie: Sheldon Stopsack (VFX Supervisor) & Kevin Estey (Animation Supervisor) – Weta FX" (§ What is your next project?)    by Vincent Frei  – The Art of VFX, May 12, 2025. "SS – Unfortunately I am unable to disclose that information .. but I hope that there might be “Another Minecraft Movie” somewhere down the line and we can all do this again.KE – Currently that’s something that I can’t disclose, but I CAN disclose that I’m ready for Another Minecraft Movie if we can be so fortunate to enjoy another journey into the weird and wonderful world."

 "A MINECRAFT MOVIE Sequel Already In Talks After Record-Breaking Box Office Opening"     – Game Fragger, April 13, 2025.

 "Building terrain. See you in theaters July 23 2027. #Minecraft"  – @AMinecraftMovie  on X (formerly Twitter), October 9, 2025

 "Minecraft 2's New Title Revealed by Warner Bros. 2027 & Beyond Slate"     – AOL.com, April 15, 2026. "Recently, ComingSoon’s Jonathan Sim attended the CinemaCon and conveyed on X (formerly Twitter), “The Minecraft sequel is titled A MINECRAFT SEQUEL. #CinemaCon.” The movie, which has been in the works since last year, is set for release on July 23, 2027. Director Jared Hess will return to the director’s chair for the movie, with Chris Galletta co-writing the screenplay."

 ""A MINECRAFT MOVIE SQUARED" | Minecraft LIVE – May 2026"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 30, 2026

 https://zerply.com/r/29FegFpw/minecraft-villager

 "A movie teaser note: In Minecraft Legends the piglins used netherwart to survive the overworld..."  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 10, 2024

 ""There’s a Really, Really Sweet, Special Nod to Technoblade": 'A Minecraft Movie' Director Jared Hess on Tributes and Easter Eggs"     by Jake Weisman and Steven Weintraub  – Collider, April 5, 2025.

 "It’s super strange that all of their eyes were supposed to be purple but when it was rendered one of the characters eyes kept coming out white in the final rendered frames so we wound up keeping it like that, because the VFX studio ran out of time."  – @torfi_F_Olafss  on X (formerly Twitter), April 6, 2025

 https://www.instagram.com/p/CbRASdMLQSU/

External links
Official movie site
A Minecraft Movie on minecraft.net
A Minecraft Movie on Wikipedia
"A MINECRAFT MOVIE: OUT NOW"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, April 4, 2025.
Navigation