For the map promoted by the trailer, see Hour of Code: A Minecraft Tale of Two Villages.



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

A Minecraft Tale of Two Villages





Type

Mojang cinematic

Date

November 10, 2020

Length

0:51

TimeCraft ►

{
    "title": "A Minecraft Tale of Two Villages",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang cinematic article, displayed as Mojang cinematic)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 10, 2020",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "0:51",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[2021 Hour of Code: TimeCraft|TimeCraft]] ►</div>"
}

A Minecraft Tale of Two Villages is a trailer promoting the Minecraft Education map of the same name.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Transcript

3 Trivia

3.1 Errors

4 Navigation

Summary
The video opens on the border between a mainland of villagers and a small island with illagers and a ravager as both peoples argue. In order to stop the fight, the agent in between digs a canal, allowing the illager island to dry up a little and connect to the mainland as a metaphor of unity. They continue digging between a fisherman and a pillager fighting over a fish, dropping it onto the canal as other fish follow. Back onto the battlefield, a cleric throws toward the illagers their iron shovel which, with the agent's touch, transforms into three sunflowers that land into the ravager's mouth. On a beetroot farm where a farmer and a pillager are next to, the agent harvests a beetroot and gives it to the farmer, who in turns gifts it to the pillager. They then move on to an apple tree where a nitwit struggles to reach the apples. To help them, the agent gets them on a ravager's back, feeding it an apple, before the video shifts to a demonstration of the map.

Characters

Agent
Cod
Desert Nitwit
Evoker
Pillager
Plains Armorer
Plains Butcher
Plains Cleric
Plains Farmer
Plains Fisherman
Plains Librarian
Plains Nitwit
Plains Shepherd
Ravager
Salmon
Snowy Nitwit
Tropical Fish
Vindicator
Wandering Trader
Settings

Apple tree
Beetroot Farm
 Border
 Castle
File:AreaSprite illager-town.pngIllager Town
 Illager Town Railway
File:AreaSprite villager-town.pngVillager Town
Quotes
External
“Announcing our 2020 Hour of Code: A Minecraft Tale of Two Villages! For centuries, the Villagers and Illagers shared the same valley but never managed to get along. Use the power of code to bring the two villages together! Players will experience empathy for their neighbors, learn about cooperation and inclusion, and embrace diversity while taking their first steps into computer science. This login-free lesson is available for anyone on Windows devices, Macs, iPads, or Chromebooks.„ — YouTube description
Transcript

What if we could build a better world through code?
Together, we believe we can!
Download Minecraft Education Edition and help us bring two villages together through the power of code!
You will experience empathy and compassion for your neighbor-
while embracing the diversity that makes us all uniquely special.
And it doesn't matter if you're new to coding or to Minecraft!
It's easy to get started with blocks or text.
But there's no limit to what you can do!
Start the Minecraft Hour of Code for free today!

Trivia
Errors
In the trailer, the agent uses fences to surround the beetroot farm. However, in-game, iron bars are used.
Navigation