This article is about the skin pack for A Minecraft Movie.   For other namesakes, see Hero.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack

Creator

Spark Universe

Skins

5

Price

Free

Release date

March 20, 2025

Website page

A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Spark Universe article, displayed as Spark Universe)",
            "label": "Creator"
        },
        {
            "field": "5",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "March 20, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=89967d0c-b75a-4ff8-a603-4683aca4713a A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack is a skin pack consisting of 5 skins of characters from A Minecraft Movie. The skin pack was later delisted on December 31, 2025.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Issues
5 History
6 Gallery

6.1 Mojang images
6.2 Screenshots

7 See also
8 References
9 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Steve

A stylized redesign of Steve, based off of his portrayal by Jack Black, with a different shirt, bushy salt-and-pepper beard, and jeans.

Garrett

A former world video game champion who has been struggling to reclaim his former glory, portrayed by Jason Momoa.

Dawn

A friend of Natalie's, portrayed by Danielle Brooks.

Henry

A young boy with a powerful imagination, portrayed by Sebastian Eugene Hansen.

Natalie

Henry's older sister with a sense of humor, portrayed by Emma Myers.

Quotes
“Dress up as the heroes from A Minecraft Movie with this skin pack. Free on Minecraft Marketplace!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
“Become one of the heroes of A MINECRAFT MOVIE! Embody your favorite character as you go on your own adventures into the Overworld and beyond or play as the entire squad with friends. Will you lovingly tame wolves as Dawn or build your own Chicken Shack as Steve? Head to Minecraft Marketplace and get the skin pack for free!Minecraft digital items require Internet, a valid Microsoft account, and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition (sold separately) (excludes Minecraft Java Edition). Geography limitations, country and balance restrictions, taxes, and Internet connection fees may apply. Available for redemption in the Minecraft Marketplace until 12/31/2025. Microsoft Services Agreement (aka.ms/MSA) applies. © WBEI and Legendary (s25).„ — YouTube video description
“Will you lovingly tame wolves as Dawn or build your own Chicken Shack as Steve? No matter what type of adventurer you are, there’s a hero and skin to suit your playstyle.*Requires Internet, a valid Microsoft account, and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition (sold separately). Geography limitations, country and balance restrictions, taxes, platform-specific online subscription requirements and Internet connection fees may apply.„ — "A MINECRAFT MOVIE: HERO PACK" section of the video description
Videos










Issues
Issues relating to "A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

History
Bedrock EditionMarch 20, 2025
Added A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack.December 31, 2025
The skin pack gets delisted from the Marketplace.
Gallery
Mojang images



			Header of the Minecraft.net article for the Hero Pack.



			Henry, Natalie, Steve, Garrett Garrison, and Dawn.



			Dawn, Natalie, and Henry with two sheep and a pig.



			The five heroes build a house.



			Garrett Garrison, Steve, and Henry mining for diamonds.



			A notification that prompts players to purchase the skin pack.


Screenshots



			A comparison between regular Steve and A Minecraft Movie Hero Pack's Steve.


See also
Story Mode Skin Pack
Dungeons Hero Skin Pack
Minecraft Legends Skin Pack
References

 "A MINECRAFT MOVIE Hero Pack"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, March 3, 2025.

 "Celebrate A MINECRAFT MOVIE with free DLC"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 4, 2025, "A MINECRAFT MOVIE: HERO PACK" section of the video description

 "A Minecraft Movie: Hero Pack"  – Minecraft on YouTube, March 20, 2025

Navigation