This article needs cleanup to comply with the style guide. [discuss]
Please help improve this page. The talk page may contain suggestions.Reason: Crafting tables use wrong sprite



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A Minecraft Movie: Add-on

Developer(s)

Spark Universe

Price

Free

Release date

February 26, 2025

Website page

A Minecraft Movie: Add-on

Article

"A Minecraft Movie: Add-on"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "A Minecraft Movie: Add-on",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Spark Universe article, displayed as Spark Universe)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "February 26, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=6ac55b36-b539-4f49-a0ee-89cc2c60cfb7 A Minecraft Movie: Add-on]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/a-minecraft-movie-add-on \"A Minecraft Movie: Add-on\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "A Minecraft Movie Add-on Pack screenshot 7.jpg"
    ]
}
Key art
A Minecraft Movie: Add-on is an add-on made to promote A Minecraft Movie, featuring many mobs and objects from the film.

Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Items
1.2 Mobs

1.2.1 NPC
1.2.2 Hostile
1.2.3 Bosses

1.3 Mechanics

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Screenshots
6.2 Official artwork
6.3 Promotional images
6.4 Renders

6.4.1 Items
6.4.2 Mobs
6.4.3 Mob animations

7 See also
8 References
9 Navigation

Additions
Items
 A Minecraft Movie Add-On Guidebook
Сan be placed on the ground, creating an entity in the form of a book.
Can flip through pages that give guidance on the add-on.
Punching the book reverts it to an item.
Automatically given to the player upon activating the add-on.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Netherite Upgrade +Oak Planks or Cobblestone or Gold Ingot or Iron Ingot or Diamond or Netherite Ingot +Stick

  Battleaxe
Tiered weapon, coming in wood, stone, iron, gold, diamond, and netherite. Each tier deals the same damage as their normal axe equivalent.
When crafted using netherite, an added netherite upgrade is required.
Attacking with this weapon knocks back other mobs in a 90° cone.
Performing use will swipe the battleaxe upwards, damaging mobs in a 90° cone and launching  them vertically. When performed as a critical hit, this knockback is halved.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Netherite Upgrade +Oak Planks or Cobblestone or Gold Ingot or Iron Ingot or Diamond or Netherite Ingot +Stick

 Spear
Tiered weapon, coming in wood, stone, iron, gold, diamond, and netherite. Each tier deals the same damage as their normal axe equivalent, but with 20% of the durability when attacking in melee.
When crafted using netherite, an added netherite upgrade is required.
Can be thrown.
Identical to the crafting recipe for spears in the main game, except for netherite.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Iron Nugget +Iron Ingot

  Buck-Chuckets
Crafted using three iron ingots and five iron nuggets.
Has 321 durability, and is repaired using iron ingots.
Deals 5HP damage.
Can perform one of three effects on hit: a critical hit, which deals additional damage; a stun, which applies Slowness III and Weakness III for a few seconds; or knockback, sending the mob backward further.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Red Mushroom Block

  Mushroom Hat
Crafted using three mushroom blocks in a triangle shape.
Can be worn on the head as a helmet.
Emits glowing mushroom spore particles.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Iron Ingot +Potato +Stick

  Potato Launcher
Crafted using three iron ingots, a potato, and two sticks.
On use, launches tater tots or ender pearls as projectiles. Launched ender pearls can go further than when thrown normally.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Potato

4

  Tater Tot
Crafted using one potato, earning four tater tots.
Used as ammo for the Potato Launcher. Tots can be equipped to the off-hand.
Can be eaten to refill 6 ()

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Netherite Ingot

  Malgosha's Staff
Dropped by Malgosha.
Crafted using three netherite ingots in a diagonal line.
Deals 5HP damage.
Can be combined with Orb of Dominance to create the Staff of Dominance.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Blaze Rod +Totem of Undying +Heart of the Sea +Nether Quartz +End Rod +Ghast Tear +Ender Pearl +Nether Star +Redstone Dust

  Orb of Dominance
Dropped by Malgosha.
Crafted using a blaze rod, totem of undying, heart of the sea, Nether quartz, End rod, ghast tear, ender pearl, Nether star, and redstone dust.
Can be combined with Malgosha's Staff to obtain the Staff of Dominance.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Orb of Dominance +
Malgosha's Staff

  Staff of Dominance
Crafted using Malgosha's Staff and the Orb of Dominance.
Deals 7HP damage.
Using the Staff conjures projectiles of dominance. The explosion power increases the longer the Staff is used for.
Mobs
NPC
  A Minecraft Movie Add-On Trader
Similar to a wandering trader, spawning with two trader llamas.
Sells a battle axe and spear of a random tier for an amount of emeralds  depending on the tier, Malgosha's Staff for 5 emeralds, Buck-Chuckets for 10 emeralds, and 5 tater tots for 1.
Drops milk bucket, copper ingot, netherite ingot or lead on death. Can only drop 1 item
Hostile
All hostile mobs in the add-on naturally spawn in the Nether. Can also be spawned on Peaceful difficulty (where hostile mobs cannot be spawned normally), in which all piglin mobs, including boss mobs are passive to players in survival mode.

  Chef Piglin
Fights with a butcher's knife.
Drops cooked beef, beetroot soup and cooked porkchop on death.
  Drum Piglin
Provides an 8 second buff of strength to nearby Piglins while drumming.
Flees from nearby Players. Attacks after buffing itself.
Drops gold ingots, paper, and sticks on death.
  Hammer Piglin
Attacks with a hammer.
Possesses a ground slam attack.
Drops gold ingots, and leather pants on death.
  Pickaxe Piglin
Most closely resembles a conventional piglin, albeit with lower eyes.
Wields a pickaxe, which has a chance to drop when defeated.
  Piglin General
Possesses a spin attack with high knockback.
Drops netherite swords, netherite armor, and gold ingots on death.
  Spear Piglin
Can jab and throw spears from a distance with high ranged damage, but low melee damage.
Drops gold ingots and leather tunics on death.
  Torch Piglin
Can spawn as either an adult or a baby.
Sets players on fire.
Drops torches on death.
  Warrior Piglin
Attacks very quickly with a large sword with medium damage.
Drops gold ingots, bones, and iron swords on death.
Bosses
  Great Hog
Fires a "volley of fireballs" from an arm cannon that sets targets on fire.
Has a punch attack.
Drops gold ingots, blocks of gold, blocks of iron, Blaze rods, ender pearls, coal, diamonds, netherite ingots, and netherite upgrades on death.
  Malgosha
Conjures fireballs.
Sweeps back nearby players in a 50o to 80o cone.
Can summon Piglins, Piglin General, Torch Piglins, Hammer Piglins, Spear Piglins, Drum Piglins, Warrior Piglins, Chef Piglins, and Pickaxe Piglins for support.
Immune to zombifying in the Overworld.
Drops Orbs of Dominance, her Staff, and the Staff of Dominance on death.
Mechanics
Piglins in the Overworld can be given Nether wart or awkward potions to stop them from zombifying.
Quotes
“When the Overworld and Nether clash, you’d better be equipped! Wield powerful weapons and fight vicious piglins from A Minecraft Movie in this free add-on. Equip the potato launcher, buck-chuckets, and more, then face the Piglin General, the Great Hog, and a host of other foes. Can you handle everything the Nether will throw at you? Gear up and find out!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos





History
Bedrock EditionFebruary 26, 2025
The A Minecraft Movie: Add-on is revealed through Block to Unlock.
The A Minecraft Movie: Add-on is released on the Marketplace.December 31, 2025
The A Minecraft Movie: Add-on is delisted.
Trivia
A Minecraft Movie Live Event uses the same piglins, battleaxes and buck-chuckets models as the addon, but the server redesigns the textures to be more similar to the style of RealismCraft, another project by Spark Universe.
There is a glitch in the anti-zombification mechanic that makes it not work on normal Piglins, Piglin Brutes, and baby torch piglins. Despite this, Piglin Brutes appear in the pictures demonstrating the add-on and are not zombifying in the Overworld.
Gallery



			Pack icon.


Screenshots



			Comparison between a piglin and a pickaxe piglin.



			Several piglins patrolling the Nether.



			A player cornered by the Great Hog.



			A torch piglin in the Overworld.



			The Great Hog in the woodland mansion.



			Malgosha lurking in the shadows.


Official artwork



			Calendar of all the piglin variants in the add-on and a piglin brute.



			Several piglins next to a chalk outline of a defeated player.


Promotional images



			Several of the piglins in the Nether.







			The beginning of a conflict.



			Several piglins emerging from a portal.



			A distant look at a fight.



			Ari using buck-chuckets.



			Another view.



			The Great Hog in the Nether.



			Sunny shooting tater tots.



			Panorama



			A notification that prompts players to purchase the add-on.



			Notification on Block to Unlock which teases the Add-On .


Renders
Items



			Orb of Dominance



			Staff of Dominance



			Malgosha's Staff



			Mushroom Hat



			Tater Tots



			Potato Launcher



			Wooden Spear



			Stone Spear



			Gold Spear



			Iron Spear



			Diamond Spear



			Netherite Spear



			Wooden Battleaxe



			Stone Battleaxe



			Golden Battleaxe



			Iron Battleaxe



			Diamond Battleaxe



			Netherite Battleaxe


Mobs



			A Minecraft Movie Add-On Trader



			Malgosha



			Great Hog



			Piglin General



			Piglin Chef



			Spear Piglin



			Drum Piglin



			Piglin Warrior



			Hammer Piglin



			Baby Torch Piglin



			Adult Torch Piglin



			Pickaxe Piglin


Mob animations



			A Minecraft Movie Add-On Trader walking



			A Minecraft Movie Add-On Trader idling



			A Minecraft Movie Add-On Trader idling special



			Piglin general idling



			Piglin general idling special



			Piglin general walking



			Piglin general running



			Piglin general pre-barter



			Piglin general barter loop



			Piglin general barter post



			Piglin general mace pre-spin



			Piglin general mace spin loop



			Piglin general mace spin post



			Malgosha spawning in



			Malgosha idling



			Malgosha idling special



			Malgosha walking



			Malgosha running



			Malgosha shooting staff



			Malgosha staff melee 1



			Malgosha staff melee 2



			Malgosha staff melee 3



			Malgosha staff melee 4



			Malgosha pre-minion spawning



			Malgosha summoning minions loop



			Malgosha summining minions post



			Malgosha dying



			Great Hog idling



			Great Hog idling special



			Great Hog walking



			Great Hog running



			Great Hog shooting fireball 1



			Great Hog shooting fireball 2



			Great Hog melee 1



			Great Hog melee 2



			Piglin Chef Idling



			Piglin Chef special Idling



			Piglin Chef Running



			Piglin Chef Walking



			Piglin Chef Pre-Barter



			Piglin Chef Barter Loop



			Piglin Chef Barter Post



			Piglin Chef Melee Attack 1



			Piglin Chef Melee Attack 2



			Spear Piglin idling



			Spear Piglin idling special



			Spear Piglin walking



			Spear Piglin running



			Spear Piglin pre-barter



			Spear Piglin barter loop



			Spear Piglin barter post



			Spear Piglin melee 1



			Spear Piglin melee 2



			Spear Piglin pre-throw 1



			Spear Piglin throw loop 1



			Spear Piglin throw post



			Spear Piglin pre-throw 2



			Spear Piglin throw loop



			Spear Piglin throw post



			Drum Piglin idling



			Drum Piglin idling special



			Drum Piglin walking



			Drum Piglin running



			Drum Piglin playing drum 1



			Drum Piglin playing drum 2



			Drum Piglin attack 1



			Drum Piglin attack 2



			Piglin Warrior idling



			Piglin Warrior idling special



			Piglin Warrior walk



			Piglin Warrior run



			Piglin Warrior pre-barter



			Piglin Warrior barter loop



			Piglin Warrior barter post



			Piglin Warrior melee attack 1



			Piglin Warrior melee attack 2



			Hammer Piglin idling



			Hammer Piglin idling special



			Hammer Piglin walking



			Hammer Piglin running



			Hammer Piglin pre-barter



			Hammer Piglin barter loop



			Hammer Piglin barter post



			Hammer Piglin battle hammer melee 1



			Hammer Piglin battle hammer melee 2



			Hammer Piglin battle hammer slam



			Baby Torch Piglin idling



			Baby Torch Piglin idling special



			Baby Torch Piglin walking



			Baby Torch Piglin running



			Baby Torch Piglin pre-barter



			Baby Torch Piglin barter loop



			Baby Torch Piglin barter post



			Adult Torch Piglin idling



			Adult Torch Piglin idling special



			Adult Torch Piglin walking



			Adult Torch Piglin running



			Adult Torch Piglin pre-barter



			Adult Torch Piglin barter loop



			Adult Torch Piglin barter post



			Adult Torch Piglin melee attack 1



			Adult Torch Piglin melee attack 2



			Pickaxe Piglin idling



			Pickaxe Piglin idling special



			Pickaxe Piglin walking



			Pickaxe Piglin running



			Pickaxe Piglin pre-barter



			Pickaxe Piglin barter loop



			Pickaxe Piglin bart post



			Pickaxe Piglin melee attack 1



			Pickaxe Piglin melee attack 2


See also
A Minecraft Movie: JetPack Add-on, another add-on which promotes A Minecraft Movie.
Lava Chicken Add-On, another add-on which promotes A Minecraft Movie.
References

 Referred to as wandering trader in the add-on game files.

Navigation