A Warden's Song





Type

Mojang cinematic

Productioncompanies

Element Animation
Bram Stout Productions

Date

October 15, 2022 (Minecraft Live)
October 20, 2022 (YouTube)

Length

2:09

◄ Caves & Cliffs: The Musical
A Tale of Two Friends ►

{
    "title": "A Warden's Song",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang cinematic article, displayed as Mojang cinematic)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Element Animation article, displayed as Element Animation)\n* (link to Bram Stout Productions article, displayed as Bram Stout Productions)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* October 15, 2022 (Minecraft Live)\n* October 20, 2022 (YouTube)",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:09",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">◄ [[Caves & Cliffs: The Musical]]</div>\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[A Tale of Two Friends]] ►</div>"
}

A Warden's Song, also known as The Warden's Lament, is an animated horror music video released during Minecraft Live 2022, featuring Steve and Alex evading a warden.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Transcript/Lyrics

3 Gallery

3.1 Screenshots
3.2 Development images

4 References
5 Navigation

Summary
Steve and Alex are exploring a cave, stumbling upon an ancient city, while a narrator sings. As they stress that no one is around, Steve inspects a candle. Alex reaches inside a chest, grabbing a pair of iron leggings enchanted with swift sneak. Alex then finds an echo shard, which Steve then takes from them, then dropping it, before Alex catches it in midair right in front of a sculk sensor. Steve accidentally closes the chest, setting the sensors off until they all summon the warden. The narrator confirms the warden has no eyes, but can still sense you in the dark, as Steve and Alex try to hide from it. However, it sniffs them.
Steve and Alex run away in a hurry alongside a swarm of bats, but Steve trips onto a sculk block. However, a bat flies right into the warden, giving Steve ample time to escape. Steve and Alex think they're safe, but then the warden unleashes its sonic boom. Somehow, they manage to dodge it, then eye an exit from the cave, sealing it off with dirt, planks, and cobblestone. However, the warden is able to tunnel through.

Characters

Alex
Bat
Dark Narrator
Steve
Warden
Quotes
External
“The deep dark is home to ancient cities, sculk blocks, and the warden. The key to navigating the completely quiet biome is stealth, silence, and more silence. That’s why we decided to go down there and sing our hearts out! Speaking of which, what’s that beating sound? Is it getting louder?„ — YouTube description“Element Animation produced a song together with an animated music video about the Warden, a monster in the popular video game Minecraft, for the Minecraft Live 2022 event. I was hired by Element Animation to work on the lighting, do all of the compositing, and due to time constraints at the end manage the last two weeks of production, making sure it got finished on time. Additionally, I created the rigs, smoke effects, and a special grain algorithm used in the video.„ — Bram Stout Productions' involvement
Transcript/Lyrics

Steve and Alex walk into an ancient city, before pulling out torches
Dark Narrator: "Come down, to the dark! There's NO ONE around!"
Bats: squeak
Dark Narrator: "An ancient city, with riches to be found!"
Alex hands Steve swift sneak enchanted leggings
Steve: step step step
Dark Narrator:  "But, don't make a peep..."
Alex picks up an echo shard
Echo shard: glimmers
Dark Narrator: "...and be light, on your feet..."
Steve appears from under Alex and snatches the shard from them, only to lose grasp and drop it
Dark Narrator: "...cause if you make a sound..."
Alex grabs the echo shard from Steve
Dark Narrator: "...there's something you'll meet."
Chest: accidentally shut by Steve
Sculk sensor: clicks
Many sculk sensors are set off, rattling
Sculk shrieker: shrieks
The lights dim, as Steve and Alex hurdle together
Warden: growls as it emerges from ground
Dark Narrator: "The Warden will rise, it has no eyes..."
Sculk sensor: clicks in response to Steve and Alex backing away
Dark Narrator: "...but can sense you in the dark..."
Sculk sensor: click in response to Steve and Alex fleeing in terror
Dark Narrator: "...and hunt you as you hide..."
Sculk: smushes against Alex
Dark Narrator: "OH NO, it's too late..."
Warden: makes footsteps as it approaches Steve and Alex
Dark Narrator: "You've sealed your fate. It just needs a whiff..."
Warden: sniff sniff
Dark Narrator: "...and it can find you, in one sniff!"
Warden: sniffs again, confused as Steve and Alex are gone
Steve and Alex: step, step
Warden: sniff
Dark Narrator: "YOU STEAL, AND YOU ROAM!"
Warden: roars
Bats: squeak
Sculk sensor: click click
Dark Narrator: "INVADING ITS HOME!"
Bats: squeak
Dark Narrator: "CAAAuusing a COMMOTION!"
Steve falls down on the ground, cornered
'Bat: squeak
A bat flies into the Warden's face, and the Warden tries to swat it away
Dark Narrator: "Get OUT of this catacomb!"
Bat: dies
Dark Narrator: "Souls BEEaat in its chest!"
Warden: sonic boom
Steve and Alex: dodge sonic boom, hitting the ground
Dark Narrator: "There's no time to rest!"
Bats: squeak
Sculk sensors: click click
Dark Narrator: "And you've been a bad guest..."
Steve and Alex: begin placing dirt, planks, and cobblestone
Dark Narrator: "So run, you cacophonous pest!"
The screen fades away, but then the Warden phases through the wall created by Steve and Alex
Warden: shifting
Dark Narrator: "Come down, to the dark..."

Gallery
Screenshots



			Steve and Alex walk into the city.



			Steve and Alex find the place abandoned.



			Steve inspects candles.



			The ancient city.



			Alex handing Steve leggings.



			Steve trying to be quiet.



			Alex holding an echo shard.



			Steve emerging from under Alex.



			Steve dropping the echo shard.



			Alex grabbing the echo shard again.



			Sculk sensors clicking.


Development images



			A reference image for lighting from the 1992 Dracula film.



			Another from Inferno.



			Another from Blade Runner.



			Another from the 1989 Batman.



			An example of these techniques being used in a previous Minecraft project, The Wild Update Where Will You Wander?.



			Concept art of the fog in the ancient city, designed to slowly recede as the characters discover the area.



			Concept art of the city center.



			Concept art of Steve and Alex roaming the city, with minimal smoke.



			Steve behind a pillar.



			Alex in iron armor.



			Plan for lighting conditions.



			Shot by Joel Houghton.



			Plan for lighting on a closeup.



			Alex in darkness while Steve looks at their shoulder.



			Plan for the warden's lighting.



			The same shot, complete.



			Smoke in the video.



			Alex without color correcting.



			The warden without halation.



			The warden with halation.



			The grain used for one of the shots in the video.



			Demonstration of the Alex rig.



			Demonstration of the rigging in Steve's beard.



			Demonstration of the rigging in the warden's ribs.



			Sizzle reel of the video.


References

 "Minecraft Live 2022: A Warden’s Song"     – Bram Stout Productions.

Navigation