A year in blocks





Type

Mojang cinematic

Productioncompanies

Element Animation

Date

December 26, 2024

Length

1:45

The Loneliest Chicken of 2025 ►

{
    "title": "A year in blocks",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang cinematic article, displayed as Mojang cinematic)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Element Animation article, displayed as Element Animation)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 26, 2024",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:45",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[The Loneliest Chicken of 2025]] ►</div>"
}

Minecraft 2024: A year in blocks is an informational animation recounting many of the events and records of the year 2024, narrated as a poem.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Video Statistics
1.2 Characters
1.3 Settings

2 Transcript
3 Quotes
4 Videos
5 Trivia

5.1 Errors

6 Gallery
7 Navigation

Summary
As snow falls in a snowy plains, an allay flies by a rabbit and over near a cabin, where the heroes of Minecraft are staying. As Steve and Alex rest by a fireplace, Sunny falls asleep by a window. Suddenly, Efe barges into the room, an armadillo sneaking inside. Efe places a map into an item frame beside many collectibles, such as a sniffer egg, before Kai appears and begins breaking apart the floor. Zuri rests on top of a blast furnace, before Noor drops several items into a hopper.
Makena rests on a bed, not quite asleep yet, wearing netherite armor trimmed with resin, and then pets a woods wolf. Kai pulls a lever in a factory area, crafting many items such as rails, bread, crossbows, golden apples, blocks of raw gold, and golden hoes. Steve sleeps comfortably beside an armadillo, dreaming about adventuring with their friends in the trial chamber, while Alex dreams about a pale garden. Picking up pale plants, the dream quickly turns into a nightmare, as several creakings appear and wake them up. Undeterred, Alex puts on a netherite helmet.
Efe, now asleep, rests on a bed marked with hearts alongside many cakes. An armadillo sniffs the cake. Suddenly, Sunny awakens, as does Steve, who then discovers Zuri putting on diamond boots. Noor pulls out a treasure map, handing it over to Kai, revealing it leads to a trial chamber. From above, Makena appears, ready for an adventure. Sunny and Efe begin packing items such as trial keys, before everyone rushes out into the outdoors. Sunny helps everyone out into the wild, while Steve rides atop a minecart and Alex a pig. Before the video concludes, the allay appears, welcoming the new year.

Video Statistics
347 billion blocks broken
44 million armadillo scutes picked up
1.3 million wolf armor crafted
491 thousand crafters crafted
20 million breezes defeated
2 million maces crafted
24 million vaults opened
53 million eyeblossoms collected
39 million hardcore mode deaths
1.4 million bundles dyed
85 billion biomes visited
These statistics likely refer to Bedrock Edition only, since Java Edition does not send this information as telemetry data.

Characters

Alex
Allay
Ari
Baby Armadillo
Black and White Rabbit
Bogged
Breeze
Chestnut Wolf
Chicken
Creaking
Efe
Kai
Makena
Noor
Pale Wolf
Pig
Rabbit
Spider
Steve
Sunny
Woods Wolf
Yearly Narrator
Zombie
Zuri
Settings

Pale Garden
Snowy Plains
Snowy Taiga
Trial Chambers
Winter House
Transcript











What an adventure! This year has been fun!
So let's relax and reflect on the adventures you’ve been on!











You’ve shaped your worlds, and broken so many blocks!
You’ve explored all the features from updates & game drops.











All the new items, friendly mobs that you've met.
You restyled armor for you and your pets!











You mastered the crafter and you've crafted a lot!
Some things that were useful and some things that were not.











You jumped at the chance when the trials were revealed.
Took on the challenge, made new weapons to wield!











You opened the vaults and clashed with the Breeze.
But a new foe was hiding amongst the trees.











You found a tranquil new biome, filled with moss and pale oak,
but its beauty turned eerie when the Creaking awoke.











When you wanted the thrill, you switched to hardcore!
It made each and every step mean so much more.











But you're excited for adventure, and you don’t feel complete
when there's more to discover, and mobs to defeat!











The 15th year of Minecraft brought lots that was new,
but the secret to all the best moments is you.











You’ve made this year amazing! It's been second to none,
and we’re so excited for what’s yet to come.

Quotes
“This year you – the Minecraft community – placed billions of blocks (over 300 billion in fact!) crafted millions of maces, and created thousands of crafters. You explored features from our three game drops: Armored Paws, Bundles of Bravery, and the Garden Awakens, plus took on the challenges of the Tricky Trials update. Since you made our 15th year of Minecraft so special, this one's for you!„ — Video description
Videos





Trivia
Throughout the video, many references to previous media are made.
Efe possessing a sniffer egg could be a reference to A Tale of Two Friends.
The two teams of heroes in the trial chamber (first Steve, Sunny, Efe, and Makena, then Noor and Ari) is consistent with Tricky Trials Update Official Trailer.
Efe being interested in cake could be a reference to a piece of artwork promoting the Tricky Trials update.
Errors
The bottom of Steve's torso can be seen in one shot, revealing it's cyan like their shirt.
Kai breaks a bamboo mosaic floor with a pickaxe, despite the official tool being an axe.
In one shot, the bottom of Steve’s foot is cyan.
Gallery



			Thumbnail for the video


Navigation



This was a featured article from July 28, 2025 – August 3, 2025. 
See Minecraft Wiki:Featured articles for more information.