Not to be confused with Survival.

 For other uses, see Adventure (disambiguation).

Adventure is a game mode intended for player-created maps, limiting some of the gameplay in Minecraft. In this mode, the player cannot directly destroy any blocks with any tools or place any blocks, in order to avoid spoiling adventure maps or griefing servers.

Contents

1 Gameplay

1.1 Possible interactions

2 History

2.1 Development
2.2 Java Edition
2.3 Bedrock Edition
2.4 Legacy Console Edition

3 Issues
4 See also
5 References
6 Navigation

Gameplay
Adventure mode is similar to Survival in that players receive damage from their environment, dying is possible, and players must manage hunger. However, it is different in many ways as well. In Java Edition, blocks can be destroyed only with an item/tool that has the can_break component, and cannot be destroyed by the player's fist. Likewise, blocks require the can_place_on component to be placed. In Bedrock Edition, similarly, can_destroy and can_place_on NBT tags are required to destroy and place blocks.
However, players are able to make use of the environment in other ways - including interacting with mobs and other entities (for example, killing them), turning a redstone mechanism (such as a lever) on or off, and trading with villagers. Additionally, players are able to craft items as they normally would in any other game mode. Another feature is that players always spawn exactly on the world spawn point, no matter where it is - unlike Survival mode, where players can spawn anywhere within a certain grid.
Custom Minecraft maps make good use of Adventure mode, and many custom maps are set to this game mode; players cannot break blocks or place them, therefore disallowing them to destroy the map, or add anything to it that would ruin the map. Also, it is often used to protect various multiplayer servers from griefers. Command blocks are usually used in conjunction with Adventure mode, in servers and custom maps.
Players with the ability worldbuilder set to true can break and place blocks freely on Adventure mode.‌[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only]
A player can switch to Adventure mode from any other game mode by using the command /gamemode adventure when commands are enabled.

Possible interactions
In Java Edition, if no custom data components are used, interactions with the world are divided in the following way:

Type

Possible in Adventure mode

Impossible in Adventure mode

General

Block creation

Placing down lily pads and frogspawn on water, due to MC-206807Creating frosted ice with Frost Walker boots

Placing down any other block by using it

Block destruction

Destroying blocks using indirect methods (e.g. using explosions, degrading an anvil, eating a cake, trampling turtle eggs, pushing some blocks with pistons)

Destroying any block by mining it

Entities

Using items (e.g. shears) on entities and interacting with themDamaging entitiesPlacing down boats and boats with chests

Placing down other entities (item frames, glow item frames, paintings, end crystals, armor stands, fireworks, any type of minecart)

GUIs

Accessing GUIs that the player in Survival can access (e.g. crafting table, brewing stand, trading)

Accessing GUIs that only players in Creative can access (e.g. command block, structure block)

Using items on blocks and interacting with blocks

Redstone components

Activating buttons, levers, and pressure platesOpening and closing fence gates, copper and wooden doors and trapdoorsRinging a bellTuning a note block

Changing the state of redstone comparators, redstone repeaters, daylight detectors and unconnected redstone dust

Shears

Using shears on a pumpkin, filled bee nest or filled beehive

Using shears on kelp, weeping vines, twisting vines or cave vines

Buckets

Filling a cauldron with a water bucket, lava bucket, or powder snow bucket, filling a bucket from the cauldron

Placing down a water bucket, lava bucket, powder snow bucket or bucket of aquatic mobFilling an empty bucket with lava, water or powder snow

Bottles

Filling a cauldron with water bottles, filling a glass bottle from the cauldron or water sourceUsing a glass bottle on filled bee nest or filled beehive

Using a water bottle on dirt to create mud

Setting fire

Using flint and steel or fire charge on TNTShooting flaming projectiles to light up candles, candle cakes or campfires

Using flint and steel or fire charge to create fire, to light up candles, candle cakes or campfires

Farming

Harvesting sweet berries and glow berriesComposting any compostable item, and emptying a full composterTurning farmland into dirt by jumping on it, which destroys crops planted on the farmland

Using bone meal on any block

Other

Charging up respawn anchors with glowstoneSetting spawn point on a respawn anchor or bedCausing an explosion of a respawn anchor or bed, if they are placed in an incorrect dimension

Using a honeycomb on any blockUsing an axe to scrap oxidation or wax from the block

Placing a candle on a cakeUsing a trial key on a vault or an ominous trial key on an ominous vault

Editing text on signs or hanging signsUsing dyes or glow ink sacs on signs

Inserting items into a jukebox, chiseled bookshelf, lectern, flower pot, decorated pot or shelfRemoving items from these containers

Inserting an eye of ender into an end portal frameUsing a compass on a lodestoneUsing a map on a banner to mark itUsing spawn eggs to summon mobs directly or inside monster spawners or trial spawners

Leashing entities to fences

Using an axe to strip wood or logUsing a shovel to create dirt path or to extinguish a campfireUsing a hoe to create dirt from rooted dirt or coarse dirt, or to create farmlandUsing a brush on suspicious blocksUsing a debug stick to change block states

History
Development
July 7, 2010
Adventure mode, formerly Dungeon Mode, was announced by Notch as a game mode to be available when the game is finished. Notch hinted at four players to compete, permadeath like in Hardcore mode making it rogue-like in nature, and a quest system with randomly generated maps/quests.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.3.112w22a
Added Adventure mode, accessible through commands. It is still possible to craft in Adventure mode both with the 2×2 crafting grid in the player's inventory and with the full sized 3×3 crafting table. The player can still interact with blocks with an interface, such as chests, dispensers, crafting tables, furnaces and brewing stands. The player can also go through portals, but cannot activate one by using flint and steel; flint and steel can be used to activate TNT.1.4.212w34a
Certain blocks can now be removed with the correct tools and all blocks can be placed.1.814w02a
Block hitboxes no longer appear in Adventure mode if interaction with the block is impossible.

Block destroying is now impossible by default. See here for the correct tools before this version.

The [NBT List / JSON Array] CanDestroy NBT item tag can be used to determine which blocks can be allowed to be broken.14w06a
The [NBT List / JSON Array] CanPlaceOn NBT item tag can be used to determine which blocks a block can be placed on.1.20.524w09a
Replaced the [NBT List / JSON Array] CanDestroy and [NBT List / JSON Array] CanPlaceOn NBT tags with the can_break and can_place_on data components, respectively.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
Added Adventure mode.

By using /give, items with can_destroy and can_place_on NBT tags can be acquired.Bedrock Edition1.6.0
Player with ability worldbuilder true can break and place blocks freely on Adventure mode.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU19CU71.121.121.12Patch 11.0.1
Added Adventure mode.

Certain blocks can be removed with the correct tools and all blocks can be placed.
Issues
Issues relating to "Adventure" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

See also
A guide on how to survive in Adventure mode
References

 https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.gamebandits.com/news/pc/minecraft-1-9-hardcore-mode-bring-it-on-17345

 http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2011/06/14/notch-and-todd-howard-the-one-on-one-interview.aspx

 http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/yp597/12w34a_snapshot_is_accessible_now/c5xplgu

 "Minecraft snapshot 14w06b"   (Archive)  by Dinnerbone  – Mojang.com, February 6, 2014.

Navigation