For other uses, see Alex (disambiguation).

Alex




Java Edition





Bedrock Edition



Allies

Ari
Efe
Kai
Makena
Noor
Steve
Sunny
Zuri



First appearance

Minecraft: Java Edition (1.8-pre1, 2014)

{
    "title": "Alex",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Allies"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as Minecraft: Java Edition)'' ((link to Java Edition 1.8-pre1 article, displayed as 1.8-pre1), 2014)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Alex (slim) JE3.png",
        "Alex (classic) JE1.png",
        "Alex BE3.png"
    ]
}

Alex is one of the nine default skins players can use in Minecraft, and the second to be introduced, commonly seen with Steve.

Contents

1 Appearance

1.1 Variations

2 In official media

2.1 Mojang cinematics
2.2 Marketplace
2.3 Books
2.4 Games

3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Bedrock Edition
3.3 Legacy Console Edition

4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Textures
6.2 Screenshots
6.3 Mojang images
6.4 Development images
6.5 In other media

6.5.1 Official artwork
6.5.2 Pixel artwork
6.5.3 Animated content
6.5.4 Social media
6.5.5 Merchandise
6.5.6 Other

7 References
8 Navigation

Appearance
Alex is typically depicted with thin arms, and pale fair skin. They have long, bright orange hair in a ponytail dangling down their left shoulder, white eyes, green pupils, and pink lips. Their tunic is a warm, light green, with moss green cuffs, a black belt, padded brown trousers, as well as gray boots.
In the character creator, Alex has approximately five unique items.

Character Creator pieces used by Alex

Type

Category

Name

Image

Color

Rarity

Body

Bases

Alex's Skin

 Very Light - Soft

Common

Hairs

Alex's Hair

 Vibrant Orange

Eyes

Standard Eyes

Iris

Eyebrows

Sclera

 Green - Bright

 Vibrant Orange

 Minecraft White

Mouths

Standard Mouth

 Light - Medium

Facial Hairs

None

—

Arms

Default

Legs

Size

Height

Medium

Arm Size

Wide

Style

Tops

Alex's Shirt

Common

Bottoms

Alex's Pants

Outerwears

None

—

—

Headwears

Gloves

Footwears

Alex's Shoes

Common

Face Items

None

—

—

Back Items

Variations

Name

Image

Texture

Notes

Alex

An unused Alex texture found in the Minecraft Launcher.

Tennis Alex

A darker-skinned Alex in a tennis outfit and a sweatband, featured on the Default Skin Pack (Legacy Console Edition).

Tuxedo Alex

Alex in a fancy-looking dress, not a tuxedo, featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Athlete Alex

A dark haired, olive-skinned Alex with a running shirt and track pants. Featured in the Default Skin Pack, but absent from Bedrock Edition's Legacy Skin Pack.

Swedish Alex

Alex in a Sverigedräkten, a traditional Swedish dress consisting of a blue tunic with a yellow dress and a white hood, and with blonde hair, featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Prisoner Alex

An Alex that has escaped from prison in a bright-colored prison uniform with brown hair, featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Cyclist Alex

An Alex with blue glasses, bicycling shorts, a jacket, shorts, and shoes. Featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Boxer Alex

A dark-skinned Alex with boxing gloves, short shorts, red boots and sleeveless shirt. Featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Developer Alex

Alex with gray Mojang t-shirt, featured in the Default Skin Pack.

Alex Globe

A miniaturized version of Alex, holding a globe above their head, from the MINECON Earth 2017 Skin Pack.

Party Alex

Alex in a green, glittery dress from the MINECON Earth 2017 Skin Pack.

Warm Wooly

Alex wearing a wool sweater, from the Holiday Skin Pack 2015.

T-Shirt Alex

Alex wearing various T-shirts of mobs, from the 4th Birthday skin pack.

Cinematic Alex

N/A

Alex as they appear in Mojang cinematics.

Alex (15 Year Journey)

A more detailed version of Alex, featured in 15 Year Journey.

Alex (Advent Calendar)

N/A

Alex wearing a sweater, from Minecraft Advent Calendar: Book Collection.

Alex How We Make Minecraft

N/A

Diving Suit Alex

File:Diving Suit Alex render.png

N/A

Alex in a diving suit, bearing a glaring resemblance to Idris the Impulsive, appearing in Minecraft Where's the Zombie.

In official media
Mojang cinematics
Main article: Mojang cinematics

Name

Screenshot

Description

Date

The Super Duper Minecraft Musical

Appears in the musical, as they were going to appear in the Super Duper Graphics Pack.

November 18, 2017

Village & Pillage: Official Trailer

Main protagonist of the trailer, as well as the viewpoint. Alex travels into a village, greeting many villagers while they sing and play, before saving it from a brief raid.

April 23, 2019

Nether Update: Official Trailer

Ventures into the Nether with Steve, coming into various conflicts with piglins and other Nether mobs.

June 23, 2020

Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I – Official Trailer

Makes two cameo appearances, once looking at a goat from a spyglass, another hiding behind a tree while a stampede of spider jockeys race behind.

June 8, 2021

Minecraft Live 2021: Announcement Trailer

Appearances at the very beginning, riding a horse to represent the development of film as a medium.

September 2, 2021

Caves & Cliffs: The Musical

Deuteragonist of the video, being shown/tormented by various features from the first part of the Caves & Cliffs update, such as screaming goats.

October 20, 2021

Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II – Official Trailer

Goes on a harmonic, peaceful adventure into a lush cave, contrasting with Steve's misfortune.

November 30, 2021

The Wild Update: What Will You Uncover?

Makes a brief cameo, bumping into Sunny and Efe while they get led into an ancient city.

June 5, 2022

The Wild Update Where Will You Wander?

Makes two cameo appearances, emerging from a Nether portal with Steve and a frog, and then digging a hole of mud.

June 6, 2022

The Wild Update: Craft Your Path

Adventures through the deep dark and Nether, explaining their appearances in the previous Wild Update trailers. Later, Alex gathers around a campfire alongside Sunny, Efe, Noor, and Steve, listening to their respective stories.

June 7, 2022

Caves & Cliffs Explorers

Appears at the very end as a survivor of the Collapse, watching in horror at the state of the village.

July 17, 2022

Minecraft Live 2022: Announcement Trailer

Appears at the very end, placing a sign and getting caught in a mass conflict involving an allay.

September 8, 2022

Minecraft Live 2022: A Warden's Song

Tries to survive a warden, which Steve accidentally summoned.

October 20, 2022

Introducing New Default Skins!

Working on a build of a trader llama with Steve, before dropping a redstone torch, which paves the way to introducing the rest of the cast.

November 29, 2022

Trails & Tales Update: Official Launch Trailer

Emerges from the sand while Ari is working to excavate suspicious sand, and then saves Steve from a creeper using a camel's dash.

June 7, 2023

Minecraft Live is back for 2023!

Claims the ward armor trim in an ancient city, before being made aware of Minecraft Live returning.

September 13, 2023

Minecraft is turning 15 | Come celebrate with us!

Reads a pop-up book from 15 Year Journey, which is closed to prevent the appearance of a creeper.

May 14, 2024

Tricky Trials Update Official Trailer

Plays a very minor role in the trailer, using various crafters to gear their friends with useful items while they enter a trial chamber.

June 13, 2024

Marketplace
Main article: Marketplace

Name

Image

Description

Date

10 Years of Minecraft

Appears as a statue riding a minecart alongside Steve, circling the rest of the map.

May 9, 2019

SpongeBob SquarePants

Although not appearing in the map itself, the player can come across the character Mermaid Man, who will mistake the player (presumed to be portraying Steve) for Alex.

July 26, 2022

15 Year Journey

Appears several times throughout the map, including in the hub and on the title screen.

May 20, 2024

Time Capsule Add-On

Appears as part of an animation upon placing the capsule, emerging from the ground with a random hero and working together to build it.

May 16, 2025

Books

Name

Image

Description

Date

Minecraft: The Mountain

Although not appearing in the novel itself, the character Summer is introduced, and is described very similarly to Alex.

March 2, 2021

The Minecraft Ideas Book

Appears on the Great Wall of China and Water Park Obstacle Course spreads, alongside Steve, Ari, and Noor.

October 31, 2023

Minecraft Annual 2024

Appears on the cover, alongside Steve in an abstract style.

September 26, 2023

Minecraft: Beginner's Guide

Appears on page 23, reading a book to Steve and Kai, and page 53, running a pig farm.

March 5, 2024

Minecraft Character Creator Sticker Book

Appears on page 18, watching Efe, Makena, and Noor in a fashion show.

March 28, 2024

LEGO Minecraft Ideas

Appears on the cover.

June 18, 2024

Minecraft Annual 2025

Repairs an iron golem on page 64.

August 1, 2024

Minecraft Where's the Zombie

Uniquely, Boxer Alex appears on the cover, under a huge mushroom.

August 29, 2024

Minecraft Advent Calendar: Book Collection

Appears on the cover alongside Sunny, Steve, Makena, and Zuri.

September 3, 2024

Minecraft Festive Ideas

Appears on several pages, such as page 52, Festive Interior.

September 17, 2024

The World of Minecraft (Special Edition)

Appears in a comic.

October 29, 2024

Minecraft Idea a Day

Appears on the first page.

November 5, 2024

Minecraft Brain Games

Appears on the cover in a unique, sketch style with visible lips.

January 2, 2025

Games

Name

Image

Description

Date

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate

Alex, Tennis Alex, and Swedish Alex appear as alternate costumes for Steve.

October 1st, 2020

Microsoft Solitaire Collection

Alex is one of several cards added in the Minecraft 15th Anniversary theme, reusing artwork from the Village and Pillage key art.

May 15, 2024

Microsoft Mahjong

One of many tiles added in the 15th Anniversary collaboration.

May 23, 2024

Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds

Alex is a playable character in the Season Pass and Digital Deluxe Edition of the game, alongside Steve and a Creeper.

2025

History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.8pre1
 Added the Alex skin.August 20, 2022
  New skin textures for Alex were added in the Minecraft Launcher beta, including classic and slim versions.1.19.322w45a
 Updated integrated skins of Alex.1.21.224w33a
 The slim player model has changed, moving the arms down half a pixel.24w34a
The slim player model has been reverted to the pre-24w33a shape.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.11.0build 1
 Added the Alex skin.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU24CU121.161.161.16Patch 11.0.1
 Added the Alex skin.
Issues
Issues relating to "Alex" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
An Alex-like character (pictured here second from the left, holding a pickaxe) can be seen in early promotional artwork for Minecraft.
The Alex skin closely resembles a character featured in promotional artwork for Minecraft, which was used starting in 2011. Both the Alex skin and the unnamed character are shown with long orange hair, a 1×2 "standard" mouth, green eyes, and a green shirt.
In "The History of Minecraft Skins" on Minecraft's official YouTube channel, Jens Bergensten says he "took inspiration" from his own appearance for Alex so he could take the blame for negative feedback on the skin.
To further support this, the original texture for Alex has invisible pixels. When these pixels are set to be visible, it reveals that Alex was originally supposed to have glasses. Jens also wears glasses.










The July–August 2016 issue of Lego Club Magazine mentioned that Steve is Alex's boyfriend. In the issue after, they corrected themselves stating that Steve and Alex are "just good friends".
It is also mentioned that Steve is a miner, builder, and alchemist, while Alex is a builder, explorer, and hunter.
The Alex skin is implied to be female in the description of a video from Minecraft's official YouTube channel, though never said outright through the use of pronouns or other methods.
The official Minecraft Instagram account has used gendered pronouns to describe Steve and Alex occasionally.
The official Minecraft Twitter account also used female pronouns to describe Alex.
In the moveset explanation video regarding their inclusion in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Mr. Sakurai Presents "Steve & Alex", the English subtitles referred to Steve and Alex with male and female pronouns respectively, although because Japanese omits pronouns, Masahiro Sakurai didn't use any gendered pronouns to refer to them.
The audio description for Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I – Official Trailer also refers to Steve and Alex as a "(bearded) man" and "woman" respectively.
According to a 2012 Tumblr post, Notch states that Steve and all other mobs are genderless. Similarly, Lydia Winters tends to avoid using gendered typecasting as a way of making Minecraft accessible to everyone, saying that she wouldn't approve descriptions of Steve and Alex if they weren't gender neutral.
Alex appears to be depicted as being left-handed in most official artwork depicting the character.
During PEZ THE MIC, an infomercial-style commercial for a collaboration with PEZ, Alex is described as being "full of pride".
Gallery
Textures



			Alex's texture.



			A wide version of Alex's texture.



			Untinted texture of Alex's Hair.



			Untinted texture of Alex's head.



			Untinted texture of Alex's body.



			Untinted texture of Alex's ponytail.



			Texture of Alex's Shirt.



			Texture of Alex's Pants.



			Texture of Alex's Boots.


Screenshots



			Alex eating a cake with Sunny.



			Alex venturing into a lush cave from a mountain.



			Alex holding a bucket of axolotl while Efe and Kai swim with their own axolotls.


Mojang images



			Alex, Steve, and Jesse taking a photo with a camera.



			Alex fishing with Zuri and Efe.



			Alex riding a camel with Zuri.



			Alex approaching a dark cave.



			Alex taming several wolves.



			Alex fighting a husk with a mace.



			Alex showing off a bundle.


Development images



			Alex in concept art for the Nether Update.



			Alex in concept art for the ancient city.



			Storyboard for the Trails & Tales trailer.



			Animatic of Alex's first scene in the Trails and Tales trailer.


In other media
Official artwork



			Official artwork of Alex.



			Alex fighting a creeper.



			Alex with elytra.



			Alex holding an iron sword.



			Alex as shown in the Village and Pillage artwork.



			Same as previous, but cropped only to Alex.



			Solo artwork of Alex gathering honey bottles from a beehive



			Alex as shown in the Nether Update artwork.



			Same as previous, but cropped to Alex and some soul fire.



			Alex in the Nether.



			Alex looking through a spyglass.



			Alex in a boat.



			Artwork of Alex with the rest of the cast, pictured between Steve and Efe.



			Ditto, but Alex is highlighted.



			Alex holding a diamond pickaxe in the new version numbering system artwork.



			Alex with Steve on the cover for Minecraft.



			Alex in promotional artwork for the Learn to Code Update.



			Alex statue from The Xbox Vault.



			Alex riding a camel.



			Official Steve and Alex charity auction art.



			Another piece of charity art.



			Alex in the Minecraft Spotify banner 2025.


Pixel artwork



			Alex using a goat horn.



			Alex with a goat in a boat.



			Alex with a camel.



			Steve and Alex riding a camel.



			Alex fleeing from a warden.



			Alex using a smithing table.



			Alex wearing amethyst trimmed armor.



			Alex holding a diamond sword.



			Alex in the Nether.



			Alex confronts a breeze.



			Alex is hit by a wind charge.



			Alex falling into a pit.



			Artwork of Alex for the Allay Days event.



			Ditto, but with Sunny.


Animated content



			All nine heroes of Minecraft.



			Alex riding a camel to avoid husks.



			Alex arriving on a camel to save Steve.



			Alex entering a waterfall.



			Alex emerging from a nether portal hoarding gold nuggets.


Social media



			Alex celebrating New Year's Day in 2018.



			Alex riding pigs with Steve and Noor.



			Alex sliding on a road on a pig in reference to a shot in the 1988 Japanese animated film Akira.



			Steve painting a picture of Alex.



			Alex types the gibberish phrase "dfjhfsorrjfhjy hardt totype" on a computer.


Merchandise



			LEGO Minecraft Alex Minifigure.



			An official T-Shirt of Alex, created in a collaboration with Neff.



			"Build Cozy", a Christmas shirt featuring Alex.



			"Fight the Ender Dragon", an official T-Shirt featuring Steve and Alex.



			Alex amiibo figure.



			Action figure of Alex with a slime.



			"Sun's Down, Zombies Around", an official T-Shirt featuring Steve and Alex.



			Alex costume with a diamond pickaxe.


Other



			Alex as depicted in Minecraft Dungeons



			Alex as depicted in A Minecraft Movie



			Alex as seen in Minecraft Dungeons II


References

 MC-275473

 "The History of Minecraft Skins"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 30, 2022

 "Making Mobs: Ten Things You Probably Didn't Know About Minecraft"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 27, 2019

 "Steve couldn't sleep, despite being safe in his hastily constructed dirt house. The sound of clattering bones and zombie groaning was just too intense." – @Minecraft on Instagram, May 3, 2019

 "Marching right into a Pillager Outpost may have seemed like a bad idea, but Alex had her favourite bow and an arrow ready to fly. The Pillagers never stood a chance!" – @Minecraft on Instagram, June 28, 2019

 "She's so crazzzzzzzy! Love her!!!" – @Minecraft on Instagram, January 14, 2025

 "ZOMBIE HORSE IN SURVIVAL MODE!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 29, 2022

 "She's so crazzzzzzzy! Love her!!!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), January 14, 2025

 "Super Smash Bros. Ultimate - Mr. Sakurai Presents "Steve & Alex""  – Nintendo of America on YouTube, October 3, 2020

 [1]"Gender in Minecraft"  – Notch, July 28, 2012, Tumblr

 "The Creator Of 'Minecraft' Reveals That His Game Occupies A Genderless World"     by Ana Douglas  – Business Insider, July 30, 2012.

 The Incredible True Story of How a Florida Teacher Became Head of 1 of the Biggest Brands on Earth - PopSugar; November 17, 2017

Navigation