This feature is exclusive to Java Edition, Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition. 

A typical amplified world.
Amplified (stylized as AMPLIFIED in Java Edition) is a world type that uses a larger range of altitude in Overworld terrain generation, with terrain often exceeding Y=255 and occasionally even Y=320. The Nether and the End are not affected and generate normally.

The world type's description.
It is recommended for the player to have a relatively powerful (or "beefy", as said in the world type's description) computer to mitigate long loading times and intense lag spikes on amplified, as world generation uses a large amount of memory, CPU power, and other resources.

Contents

1 Generation
2 Videos
3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition

4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Screenshots
6.2 Mojang screenshots

7 References
8 Navigation

Generation
Amplified worlds generate many large hills and mountains, which dwarf even the mountains biomes seen in default world types, and often reach the world height limit. Deep caverns often reach down to the bedrock layer. Due to extremely steep cliffs and unforgiving terrain, unprepared players can find it quite difficult to survive in this world type. Certain biomes (e.g. oceans and rivers) may see no obvious change in height. Villages still generate in this world type regardless of the shape of the terrain underneath them, often causing the buildings to generate in bizarre ways.
Amplified terrain can also be generated on the Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition by selecting the "Amplified World" option when creating a new world, but as with the normal worlds in these editions, terrain only generates up to Y level 128. These worlds can be transferred to the respective console's version of Bedrock Edition, though normal terrain will generate after the already-generated amplified terrain.

Videos





History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.7.2August 19, 2013
Jens Bergensten tweets a screenshot of some extreme changes to the world generator, and decides to keep it at Notch's request.

He warns that it is "really resource heavy".13w36a
Added AMPLIFIED world type.1.1620w06a
"Requires beefy computer" was changed to "Requires a beefy computer".1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
AMPLIFIED worlds can no longer be created.November 11, 2021
Henrik Kniberg shows how AMPLIFIED affects the new terrain generation.Pre-release 1
AMPLIFIED worlds can be created again.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitch CU36 1.38
Added the "Amplified World" option.
Issues
Issues relating to "Amplified worlds" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
This world generation can occasionally generate floating islands, which somewhat resemble the scrapped sky dimension.
The windswept savanna biome, even in the default world type, has an extreme landscape similar to amplified.
This world type was made by complete accident, when Jens Bergensten messed up some coordinates.
Gallery
Screenshots



			A village generated in an amplified world.



			A typical floating island in an amplified world.



			A birch forest in the amplified world type.



			A spruce tree cut in half due to the height limit.



			A jungle biome in the amplified world type, with an old growth taiga in the background.



			An old growth taiga biome in amplified. Note that it can snow in many places in this biome in amplified.



			Bamboo jungle in amplifed world in 1.19-rc2.



			Natural snow generating as high as Y=801 in an amplified custom world with increased maximum height.



			Plains biome terrain in an amplified world.



			Badlands biome terrain in an amplified world.



			A cherry grove in an amplified world.


Mojang screenshots



			The first image of an AMPLIFIED world, as tweeted by Jens Bergensten.



			An AMPLIFIED snowy taiga island.



			A large hole in a gravelly mountains biome.



			Amplified dark forest.



			Amplified badlands.



			A floating island above a badlands mountain.



			Amplified snowy plains.



			Amplified plains village.



			Amplified plains village.



			Amplified savanna village.


References

 "Was testing level generator stuff, when @notch asked me to keep this as an option: http://i.imgur.com/DtYeEDO.jpg Really resource heavy, though!"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), August 19, 2013

Navigation