This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Anarchia

Type

Server

Leader

The Ocury

Features

Iron Fortress

Population

~Dozens

{
    "title": "Anarchia",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Server",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "The Ocury",
            "label": "Leader"
        },
        {
            "field": "Iron Fortress",
            "label": "Features"
        },
        {
            "field": "~Dozens",
            "label": "Population"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Anarchia is a server and the main setting of the novel Minecraft: The Haven Trials. Administered by the Ocury, it is a competitive setting and the sole method of access to the Haven server.

Contents

1 Geography
2 Culture
3 History
4 Navigation

Geography
Anarchia is described as "a wasteland" with rough terrain "rising and falling in different elevations of haphazard blocks"; the description is somewhat reminiscent of real anarchy servers. The occupied area is at least a few thousand blocks in diameter.
The world is split into three distinct regions; Greenland, a forested area with a woodland mansion, Desertland, a desert, and Mountainland, a hilly area to which teleporting is not allowed. Each of these areas contains one of the trials needed to access Haven.
Nearby Mountainland is an abandoned village and the base of Declan's group, the latter of which is named the Iron Fortress due to its architecture.

Culture
The people of Anarchia are known as "Anarchians". In general, they have widely varying opinions as to what to do with the world, and whether they aspire to become the next Ocury or to escape to Haven.
An unwritten code on the server dictates that no player should kill another more than three times due to the number having cultural significance.
Though the Ocury is never seen in world, they still have some influence over the world - most notably, the server lacks diamonds, and yet Declan and his friends, stated to be close friends of the Ocury, have diamond armor.

History



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.



Spoiler warning! This section contains detailed information about The Haven Trials that may spoil your enjoyment of it. Read at your own risk!

Once, the server was named Haven. The current Ocury seized control over the server and turned it into Anarchia. Eventually, Aminata gains the title of Ocury after defeating the Ender dragon, turning the server into "Haven 2.0".

Navigation