This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Aotearoa New Zealand

Map maker(s)

Piki Studios

Price

Free

Release date

March 18, 2025

Website page

Aotearoa New Zealand in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Aotearoa New Zealand DLC"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Aotearoa New Zealand",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Piki Studios",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "March 18, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=56b6dc49-a467-4df9-bcb3-743596444ffd Aotearoa New Zealand in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/aotearoa-new-zealand \"Aotearoa New Zealand DLC\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "TNZ Tepuia 2.jpg"
    ]
}

Key art
Aotearoa New Zealand is a Marketplace map centered around exploring selected parts of New Zealand, the main filming location of A Minecraft Movie, as part of the 100% Pure New Zealand campaign.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Waitomo Caves
1.2 Te Puia, Rotorua
1.3 Kāpiti, Wellington
1.4 Torrent Bay, Abel Tasman
1.5 Tekapo
1.6 Doubtful Sound

2 Skins
3 Technical
4 Quotes

4.1 External
4.2 Internal

5 Videos
6 History
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Official artwork
8.2 Promotional images
8.3 Renders

9 References
10 See also
11 Navigation

Summary
The map opens on a title screen, marked "100% Pure New Zealand," which leads to a panning sequence across clouds and into a dense forest into a wharenui, with a song is sung. Once that concludes, the player spawns inside of a wide yard, with a prompt to interact with two characters, Pania and Koro. Koro can be found under a wooden awning, and explains that the wharenui is a place of gathering, expressing interest in helping in the filming of A Minecraft Movie. They hand over a camera to assist with the scouting, and recommends checking out the turapa inside the wharenui.
Pania can be found close by, above a small set of stairs leading into the wharenui, and explains New Zealand's relation with nature; Tiaki. Inside the building, the player can select any of the six areas using octagonal portals. When selecting the area, the turapa behind them will light up with the area's title. Although there's an open entrance to the wilderness opposite to the wharenui, it cannot be passed. Beside it are two wood carvings, and a stylized tree with several kōkako resting.

Waitomo Caves
The area begins on a path of packed mud, surrounded by bushes, rock formations, and tall grass. Behind the player are two signs, instructing them to be prepared and not litter. The first instructions are to talk to a character named Kaiawhina, who introduces the player to Waitomo. After speaking with them, the player will be transported to a 2D section, inside of a sandstone cave, with three objectives: to capture photos of a stalagmite, a stalactite, and a glowworm. Beside them is a kāruhiruhi, which can be snapped. Although a cave is visible, it cannot be entered.
Moving forward, the player will collect an item, and then drop down to a slightly dark area to collect another, before climbing a ladder into a darker area. From there the player can drop and climb up several paths, all leading into the same area.[needs testing] Exiting the 2D section returns to 3D, with stalagmites and stalactites nearby, both giving the same description when snapped. At the end of the tunnel, past several springs, is a sign pointing towards a second 2D area.
Immediately, an added challenge is evident, in the form of a waterfall. Jumping down leads deeper into the cave, where the player can choose between continuing forward or swimming up into an aquifer. The section ends when the player discovers a boat, leading to a ride where they must take pictures of glowworms throughout a dark cavern. Once the ride concludes, the player will return to the beginning area at night, and if all three photos are taken can return to the hub, Kaiawhina thanking them.

Te Puia, Rotorua
The area begins with the player facing Tipene, who explains the significance of the area, and offers three explanations of subjects; arts, geysers, and kiwi. From there the player receives three photo requirements: a geothermal vent, a mud pool, and Te Puia Tekoteko. Nearby is a small wooden hut, with a red tekoteko stationed on a wooden pole to its left. Green collectibles can direct the player down a path, beside several billboards, telling people to keep the country clean and show respect. Eventually a fork appears, one road using the same path, the other packed mud.
On the continued road, another tekoteko can be found surrounded by bushes, with the mud pool not far away in a quarry. Several mud pools can be found, bubbling light gray, a stairway leading to a balcony with three. The final photo opportunity is the vent, also very close to the mud pools. However, the first encountered are very small, with minuscule smoke. A far larger one can be found after crossing a bridge, with an NPC named Timu greeting the player, representing the New Zealand Māori Arts and Crafts Institute. They offer to explain the institute's tourism and education, beside two structures, one made of smooth quartz, and another made of deepslate bricks and cobbled deepslate.​[more information needed]
Progressing down the path leads to a large tree surrounded by moss. Passing by mossy cobblestone and azalea bushes lead to a large valley of geysers, with many signs encouraging photography. Eventually, a roadblock sign can be found, and in the distance a building made of blackstone, with another red tekoteko. The path will lead uphill, and after a long hike will lead to a bending bridge over a lake. The road will finally end at the end of a third bridge, reaching a dead end in the form of a cave blocked by mangrove signs.
Upon snapping all three photos, the area will be completed.

Kāpiti, Wellington
The area begins with the player facing Manaaki, who welcomes them to Kāpiti Island, explaining its role as an animal sanctuary. From there three goals are given: finding photo opportunities for shore, swamp, and forest birds. Nearby, Pania can be found beside a small structure, explaining the rich culture and animal sanctuaries of the area. The area splits into three, ginormous paths, with dense, thick trees.
To the left of spawn is an uphill path to a grove with hundreds of bushes, where several weka, tākapu can be found. This road circles around and swivels into several paths, leading to a gravelly beach. However, after a certain point the player will be blocked by an invisible wall.
To the right of spawn is a dense swamp, with black swans, spoonbills, and pūtangitangi. Although there is a long path, little can be found along the way, the back being a dead-end of shrubs.
To the back of spawn is a forest. Upon entering it, the time will quickly shift to night, and to day when exited. Here, pīwakawaka, kiwi, and ruru mobs can be found frolicking between azure bluets. Continuing forward the player will go up a hill beside a short dead end, leading into a maze of circling paths, trees, elevations, and occasional mobs. At the end is a small platform made of wood, where players can gaze out into a large forest.
Once all three photos are taken, the area will be completed.

Torrent Bay, Abel Tasman
The area begins in a campground, the player surrounded by tents as they receive a pop-up explaining the setting. Three NPCs are situated nearby. Rapato explains the ancestral history of the area and Te Ātiawa, and introduces their ancestor Tūrangapeke. Tama hails from the Ngāti Rārua tribe, who have fished and explored the area for generations. Te Pūoho shares the story of the Ngāti Rārua and Tinorangatiratanga, directing to Te Waikoropupū Springs.  Nearby the campsite is a building with oxidized cut copper roofing, though nothing can be found outside, and not inside for it can't be entered. Similarly, two paths can be found at the camp, ultimately leading nowhere. At the coast is Lee-Anne, an NPC the player is directed to speak with, who is revealed to be a tour guide for "your Waka experience."
Once the player agrees to join the boat, Lee-Anne will explain to ready a camera, for the trip will be all about the history of the area and come with plentiful photo opportunities. Once the conversation ends, the player will be placed on a boat, kayaking towards several points. In order to maneuver the boat, they must utilized tank controls, rotating by moving the camera and only being able to go forward and backwards.Eventually, the player will fond a shore with rocks and a glowing halo, similar to those in the wharenui, signaling to take a photo. The first is for a New Zealand fur seal.
After paddling away from there, the player will find a vacant sea, discovering a tohorā. From there, the player will reach a very narrow shore at a plateau, and can snap a picture of a kororā. Although a vast spread of water is visible, the player will be blocked by an invisible wall.
Once all three photos are taken, the area will be completed, concluding on a panning cinematic over a river and into a stylized lake.​[more information needed]

Tekapo



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Doubtful Sound



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Skins



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

There are 9 skins available which can be used as part of the package.

Name

Image

Description

Notes

Adventurer

Tourist Female

Doc Ranger

Hiker

Skier

Swimmer

Aotearoa New Zealand Tiaki

Tourist Male

Technical



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

The world is divided into separate "chunks" with no blocks in between each location.

Quotes
External
“Discover Aotearoa New Zealand in Minecraft! Explore six famed spots: Waitomo Caves, Rotorua, Kāpiti Island, Abel Tasman, Tekapo, and Doubtful Sound.
Uncover Māori culture, customs, and taonga (treasures) in the story.
Meet NPCs based on real people from across the country.

Enjoy real-world activities and otherworldly landscapes in this epic virtual journey!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Internal

“Whakairo rākau is the traditional practise of wood carving, telling stories and holding knowledge from our ancestors.„ — Whakaairo
“The kōkako is a unique bird native to New Zealand, it's known for its haunting, bell-like call.„ — Kōkako
“The Waitomo Caves, located in the Waikato region of New Zealand's North Island, are renowned for their stunning underground landscapes and glowworm displays. The name "Waitomo" comes from the Māori words "wai" (water) and "tomo" (hole), reflecting the area's geological features.Visitors can explore a network of over 300 caves, carved out of limestone by underground streams over thousands of years. Boat rides are offered through the glowworm grotto reveal thousands of tiny bioluminescent creatures lighting up the cave ceiling like a starry sky. For adventure seekers, blackwater rafting and obseiling tours offer thrilling ways to experience the caves.„ — Waitomo
“The kāruhiruhi, or pied shag, is a large, black-and-white coastal bird found in New Zealand, known for its distinctive appearance, and its habit of nesting in trees near water.„ — Kāruhiruhi
“Stalactites and stalagmites are stunning natural formations found in caves, created over thousands of years by the deposition of minerals from dripping water. Stalactites hang from the ceiling of caves, while stalagmites rise from the ground.„ — Stalagmite
“Glowworms are fascinating insects native to New Zealand, known for their bioluminescent properties. They live in damp, dark environments such as caves, grottos, and forest undergrowth. The most famous location to see glowworms is the Waitomo Caves, where thousands of these tiny creatures illuminate the cave ceilings, creating a starry sky effect.„ — Glowworms
“Te Puia, located in the geothermally active Rotorua region, is home to the New Zealand Māori Arts and Crafts Institute. For generations, we have welcomed manuhiri (visitors) from all over the world to experience the wonders of Te Whakarewarewa Geothermal Valley and the mana our Māori culture. Through our generational guiding legacy, we share our stories of tūpuna (ancestors), and our natural environment with healing waters that can rise and erupt in powerful geysers.„ — Te Puia
“Rūaumoko is the unborn child of Papatūānuku, the earth mother, and his movements are said to cause geothermal activity.„ — Mud Pools
“The heat from geothermal vents was used to cook food. Like an underground oven but it has a unique taste!„ — Geothermal Vents
“Kāpiti Island, located just 5 km off the coast of Wellington, is one of New Zealand's most accessible nature reserves. This predator-free sanctuary is home to some of the country's most endangered native birds, including the kākā, kākāriki, and the rare takahē. The island's lush forests, which are regenerating after past deforestation, provide a haven for these species. Visitors to Kāpiti Island can enjoy a variety of activities, such as guided tours, birdwatching, and hiking.„ — Kāpiti
“The weka is a large flightless bird native to New Zealand, known for its feisty and curious personality.„ — Weka
“The tākapu, or Australasian gannet, is a large seabird known for its striking plumage with black wingtips and its dramatic plunge-diving technique to catch fish.„ — Tākapu
“The black swan is a large waterfowl known for its striking black plumage and red bill, often found in lakes, rivers, and wetlands.„ — Black swan
“The royal spoonbill, or kōtuku ngutupapa, is a large, white wading bird with a distinctive spoon-shaped bill, known for its unique feeding technique of weeping its bill side-to-side to catch prey in wetlands.„ — Spoonbill
“The pīwakawaka, or fantail, is a small, energetic bird native to New Zealand, known for its friendly 'cheet cheet' call and agile flight, often seen fitting about in gardens, forests, and parks„ — Pīwakawaka
“The kiwi bird, a national icon of New Zealand, is a unique and elusive creature. Unlike most birds, kiwis cannot fly and have loose, hair-like feathers, strong legs, and no tail. Kiwi birds hold immense significance for New Zealand, both culturally and environmentally. They are considered a symbol of the country's unique wildlife. The kiwi is deeply embedded in Māori culture, regarded as a taonga (treasure).„ — Kiwi
“The ruru, or morepork, is a small native owl of New Zealand known for its haunting melancholic call and nocturnal hunting habits.„ — Ruru (owl)
“Abel Tasman Nation Park, located in the Nelson Tasman region of New Zealand, is the country's smallest national park but is renowned for its stunning coastal scenery and diverse activities. The park features golden sandy beaches, crystal-clear waters, and lush native forests, making it a paradise for outdoor enthusiasts. Wildlife is abundant, with opportunities to see native birds, fur seals, and even little blue penguins.„ — Rākauroa / Torrend Bay, Abel Tasman
“New Zealand fur seals are easily recognized by their pointy noses, long whiskers, and visible ears. They often lounge on the rocks and can be seen basking in the sun or swimming gracefully in the water.„ — Seal
“Tohorā, or southern right whales, can be spotted in the waters around Abel Tasman National Park. These majestic marine mammals are known for their distinctive V-shaped blow and lack of a dorsal fin.„ — Tohorā (Whale)
“The kororā, or little blue penguin, is the world's smallest penguin species and can be found in Abel Tasman National Park. These penguins are known for their distinctive blue feathers and small size, standing about 25 cm tall. The park's clear waters and abundant marine life provide a perfect habitat for the Kororā.„ — Kororā Penguin

Videos













History
Bedrock EditionMarch 18, 2025
The Aotearoa New Zealand world is added to the Marketplace.
Trivia
The original texture for mossy cobblestone appears in the map.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Pack icon.


































Promotional images















			A kiwi.























			A notification that prompts players to download the map.


Renders



			Glowworm



			Fur Seal



			Tohora


References

 "⭐ INNOVATION + INSPIRATION ⭐ 🟩 🟦 🟫"     by Tourism New Zealand Business Events  – LinkedIn, March 18, 2025.

 "New Zealand now playable in global game phenomenon Minecraft"     – Business Events - Tourism New Zealand, March 19, 2025.

See also
Rooted Together, a similar map centered around exploring the wilderness
Navigation