These features are primarily exclusive to Java Edition. 

This is a list of April Fools' Day jokes along with summaries of their features and changes.

Contents

1 List of April Fools' jokes

1.1 2010
1.2 2011
1.3 2012
1.4 2013
1.5 2014
1.6 2015
1.7 2016
1.8 2017
1.9 2018
1.10 2019
1.11 2020
1.12 2021
1.13 2022
1.14 2023

1.14.1 Minecraft website
1.14.2 Minecraft Launcher
1.14.3 April Fools snapshot

1.15 2024

1.15.1 Minecraft website
1.15.2 Minecraft Launcher
1.15.3 Poisonous Potato Update

1.16 2025

1.16.1 Minecraft website
1.16.2 Minecraft Launcher
1.16.3 April Fools snapshot

1.17 2026

1.17.1 Minecraft Launcher
1.17.2 April Fools snapshot

2 References
3 Navigation

List of April Fools' jokes
2010
In 2010, Notch wrote that he had planned to make a video announcing "Minecraft 4D" for April Fools', but ran out of time due to moving into a new home.

2011
Main article: Minecraft Store
In 2011, a fake "Minecraft Store" website was created. This was linked to by the locked chest, a block that was implemented for this purpose, as it was implied that keys had to be bought from said store to unlock these chests. It is heavily inspired by the Mann Co. Store from Team Fortress 2.



			Message displayed upon opening the chest



			The "Minecraft Store"



			The store after it goes into "seizure-mode"



			The window popup about the "seizure-mode"



			How the store appeared after April Fools'


2012
The logo from the Mars Effect site.
In 2012, for April Fools', Notch created a hoax website for a new game entitled Mars Effect.

“After several weeks of trying to come up with a good name for the game, we finally decided not to learn from previous experiences and pick a name that's already kind of in use by a huge existing franchise. After playing around with names like "Elight", "Wind Commander", and "Steve Online", we finally settled on the very catchy name "Mars Effect".„ — NotchThis was a joke referencing a recent lawsuit by Bethesda, developers of The Elder Scrolls franchise, regarding the name of the Mojang game Scrolls.
This game was later revealed to be an actual upcoming game, entitled 0x10c, though it was cancelled the following year, and never released.

2013
Main article: Java Edition 2.0
During 2013, Mojang released a pre-release for a fake future version of Minecraft containing numerous joke features to various YouTubers.



			The 2.0 version banner



			Redstone Bug Mob



			Diamond Chicken



			A talking Block of Coal



			Pink Wither



			Super Hostile Mode



			Etho (TNT) Slab



			Pony


2014
A post was added to Mojang Studios' blog for the joke.

“The long-nosed villagers introduced in Minecraft beta 1.9 have become sentient. They have taken over our skin servers and content delivery networks (CDN), so unfortunately you will not be able to change your skins until we fix the problem. We are desperately trying our best to pull the plugs, but we should prepare ourselves to serve under our new villager overlords. Singularity may be upon us.„ — The Minecraft Team
This caused all players' current skin to be replaced with the various villager skins, and caused users to be unable to change their skins unless they modified the launcher .json file. Different career villager skins were used, including the then-unused green robe of a nitwit villager.
In-game, villagers still acted the same, but they made different sounds. All noises were replaced with the sound effects of Element Animation's "T.E.A.V.S.R.P" (The Element Animation Villager Sounds Resource Pack). Mojang Studios also added in-game villager music. The title screen music contains a parody of the Game of Thrones theme, due to the new series starting in early April and also because of its being included in the original trailer for "T.E.A.V.S.R.P." Jeb also claimed the villager got his Twitter account.
Grumm released the villager skins on Reddit on April 1, 2014. There were seven variants, including a base skin.
An updated version of T.E.A.V.S.R.P., complete with the new music, was released by Element Animation on April 2, 2014.
Soon afterward, Element Animation released this video, and on April 2, 2014, the skins and the sounds were reverted to the way they were before.



			One of the villager skins (at the time, the nitwit was unimplemented)



			A server during the event



			The base villager skin



			The butcher villager skin



			The farmer villager skin



			The librarian villager skin



			The priest villager skin



			The smith villager skin



			The nitwit villager skin


The image that Johan posted on April Fools' 2014
One of the Pocket Edition developers, Johan Bernhardsson, also shared an image of the player bouncing a basketball in-game.

2015
Main article: Java Edition 15w14a
15w14a was released as an April Fools' joke for version 1.10, when the next update was supposed to be 1.9. This "update" is called the Love and Hugs Update. There was also a QR code written in the snow that generated in a superflat world that, when scanned, reads "Minecraft 1.9: The Combat Update". Swords were replaced with "hearts". The only world name available was "There can only be one". Survival was called "Existence". Players were also unable to take damage from the void.



			An explosion of heart particles from an end crystal



			Zombified Piglin (at the time known as "Zombie pigmen") wielding heart swords



			Monster Rooms (at the time known as "Dungeons") were replaced with "houses"



			The pink wither returns



			The "Minescreeper" minigame



			Obsidian Boat



			Heart Particles



			Heart Boat



			Hidden QR Code


2016
1.RV-Pre1 shows the tech items and the USB charger block
Main article: Java Edition 1.RV-Pre1
1.RV-Pre1 was released as an April Fools' joke for the update 1.RV. This "update" was called the "Trendy Update".



			A player wearing this version's new equippable items



			Signs get a more modern appearance



			What signs look like while wearing reality vision goggles



			Viewing a sign through reality vision goggles



			USB Charger Block



			Ankle Monitor



			Reality Vision Goggles


2017
The Mine & Craft Digital Leisure Device from April Fools 2017
The Mine & Craft Digital Leisure Device, a parody of Nintendo's Game & Watch, was announced on the Minecraft website.

2018
A comparison of some textures
See also: Texture Update

A version of Minecraft's textures was released for Java Edition, available in versions 1.12.x and snapshots from 17w43a to 18w11a. It was announced that all editions of Minecraft would get the new version of textures.
The new textures are the original textures using 8-bit color, leading to a drastic reduction in detail. The splash text for this day also shows any of the following:

Cleaner!
Simplified!
Perfected!
Art directed! (by robots)
Machine learned textures!
Not blurry!
Not bubbly!
Not cartoony!
Photorealistic!
Hand-painted!
The textures and the splashes were reverted on April 2, 2018 to the way they were before. However, this update cannot be reactivated by setting the computer's date to April 1, 2018.
For block and item renders of these textures, see Category:April Fools 2018. Archived as a resource pack.



			The menu screen, featuring a unique splash



			Some of the textures used during the 2018 April Fools' event



			An example of the way the world looks with these textures



			A village with these textures



			A ravine with these textures including the overlay



			A Java Edition 1.14 village with these textures



			Underwater terrain with these textures



			The inventory with these textures



			A desert pyramid and the sun with these textures



			The chest room in a desert pyramid with these textures



			A jungle temple with these textures



			A swamp hut with these textures


2019
Main article: 3D Shareware v1.34
An April Fools' version officially called "Minecraft 3D" was released, containing many references to gaming in the 1990s, primarily Doom.



			Cover art



			The loading screen



			The title screen



			Difficulty options



			Death screen



			A nerd creeper



			The UI with the default resource pack



			The UI with the programmer art resource pack



			Ingame image of the Minecraft dev team



			3D Item



			Tasty 3D Item


2020
Main article: Java Edition 20w14∞
Snapshot 20w14∞ was released, adding 2,147,483,645 dimensions that can be accessed by throwing a book and quill that was not specially customized or written book into a Nether portal.



			The 20w14∞ version banner



			The "ant" dimension



			The "sponge" dimension



			The "library" dimension



			The "bridges" dimension



			The "isolation" dimension



			The "slime" dimension



			The "skygrid" dimension



			Cursor Block



			Swaggiest Stairs Ever


2021
Main article: Minecraft Plus!
Minecraft Plus! for Windows, a screensaver collection that references screensavers from older versions of Windows, was announced on the Minecraft website. This April Fools joke was inspired by Microsoft Plus! for Windows XP



			Minecraft Plus! (Box Art)



			A flying glow squid screensaver



			A flying creeper face screensaver



			A screensaver featuring random block textures



			A screensaver featuring bouncing blocks



			A screensaver featuring bouncing items



			A screensaver featuring a rotating block



			A screensaver featuring liquid tiles


2022
Main article: Java Edition 22w13oneBlockAtATime
For April Fools 2022, Mojang Studios released a "One Block At A Time" snapshot (22w13oneBlockAtATime), which replaces the inventory with holding blocks, items or mobs function directly, hence the name "One Block at a Time".



			Player wearing a glass block



			Footsteps when walking



			Player holding a bee



			Player holding a spyglass



			Player holding a sugar cane



			Player holding a sugar cane from a first-person perspective



			Player holding a sheep



			Player holding a skeleton with spyglasses on its eyes



			Player riding the ender dragon in The End dimension


2023
Minecraft website
On the minecraft.net website, two chickens appear on the bottom left and bottom right of the page. Clicking on both of them causes them to breed and spawn numerous chickens, covering and spamming across the entire screen, sometimes crashing the user's browser.
This joke feature toggled on or off and after breeding and spawning chickens, the "Close" button on the bottom can be hit to return to minecraft.net home page.



			Minecraft website on April 1, 2023 before...



			...and after breeding the two chickens


Minecraft Launcher
The Minecraft Launcher was set on fire spreading across the screen. On the left sidebar of the launcher, players could click at the water bucket and then click on the fire to extinguish them.
This joke feature can be toggled on or off, players can also mute the fire cracking and water bucket sounds.



			Minecraft Launcher "on fire" on April 1, 2023


April Fools snapshot
Main article: Java Edition 23w13a_or_b
Mojang Studios also published and released a joke snapshot - 23w13a_or_b, which was named "The Vote Update" a few hours later. The gameplay of this update revolves around a voting system, where the player chooses from many possible scenarios that change the state of the world.



			The Moon after it has been enlarged so much that it pulls mobs and players toward it



			A player who has transformed into a charged creeper



			A player's inventory after transforming into an ender dragon



			The surface of the Moon in snapshot 23w13a_or_b



			The Earth can be seen in the sky from the Moon



			An other portal


2024
Minecraft website
The minecraft.net website was updated to feature several interactable poisonous potatoes across the home page. When clicked, they deplete the health bar below the Minecraft logo, losing 1.5 - 2 hearts per click. When health bar gets fully depleted, the user is greeted with a "You Died!" screen saying "You awoke the Toxifin", showing the score (consuming a potato gives 1500 score[verify]) and a big "Respawn" button. Clicking the "Respawn" button takes the user back to minecraft.net and resets all the poisonous potatoes.
This joke feature can be toggled on or off by clicking "Turn off potatoes" on the top left corner.



			Minecraft website on April 1, 2024



			... when zooming all the way out



			"You Died" screen after consuming too many poisonous potatoes


Minecraft Launcher
The loading animation has been changed to a spinning poisonous potato with poison effect particles. Rarely​[more information needed], however, the loading screen can appear as a regular potato instead. Additionally, when clicking in the launcher, 1 to 10​[more information needed] potatoes fly out from where the mouse is clicked and fading out.
The Play & Install buttons, the menu tab, and the headline's text had been changed from Noto Sans to Potatis. Additionally, all the E's, R's, and N's have been drawn backward. This may or may not​[more information needed] be intentional, but there has been no confirmation and there may not be.
These joke features can be toggled on or off by toggling the "Enable April Fools 2024" checkbox in the launcher settings.



			Minecraft Launcher spinning animation on April 1, 2024.



			When clicking on the Launcher on April 1, 2024



			The new potato fonts for menu tab, headlines, and Play/Install button


Poisonous Potato Update
Main articles: Java Edition 24w14potato and Poisonous Potato Add-On
Unlike prior years, Mojang Studios released two separate April Fools releases on both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition, under the name the "Poisonous Potato Update." On Java Edition, the snapshot 24w14potato was released, adding potato-related blocks, food, tools, armor and weapons, as well as the Potato dimension. Players can teleport to the dimension by going into a potato portal. The dimension consists of floating islands made of potato blocks and has naturally spawning potato mobs, animals and villagers in potato villages. They also added potato themed structures. On Bedrock Edition, the Poisonous Potato Add-On, created and released by Jigarbov Productions, was made available on the Marketplace. It adds new poisonous potato themed blocks, items and entities.

2025
A screenshot of the change
Gamemode One released a joke responding to a larger April Fools joke by Sega, announcing that Tails would be renamed to "Kilometres" in the Sonic the Hedgehog world, referencing the fact that "Miles" is both Tails' first name and a unit of distance measurement.

Minecraft website
The home page for the minecraft.net website was updated to include a Mob Animator, with the splash text "How does it work? We don't know!". An option to spawn a mob was added and would summon a random mob, which was animated and could be dragged everywhere in the page.
The Mob Animator relies on a Microsoft A/B testing system that includes tracking, which means ad blockers, strict privacy protection mode in Firefox and rejecting cookies on Minecraft.net will cause it not to appear. There are also references to the rollout only being available to 66% users in the API responses, but this is not confirmed to be the case.
Combining a majority of mobs with the "animate mobs" tab by dragging the mobs and placing them in the empty slot would cause the second mob to disappear and the first mob to appear in the output slot, but with potion particles, which then shortly cause the affected mob to explode.

The giant 3D TNT block
An option to spawn blocks was also included. Out of the Blocks, only TNT can be combined with TNT, which results in a giant 3D TNT block. This can be used to explode other UI elements on the website.
Moving TNT over anything except TNT causes the TNT to explode and both to vanish. Dirt and Stone both have a darker version, with the Dirt having a gradient with darker color at the top and lighter at the bottom, and the Stone looking almost entirely black. The splash text "Conveniently placed!" can be seen in the top left corner under the Mob Animator section in the sky.
The arrow in the Mob Animator is grey by default, and it turns red when a mob combination is inputted. When certain combinations are inputted, the arrow will turn green, which signifies the combination will go through successfully. It is also possible to obtain larger versions of several different mobs by combining specific variants of those mobs (e.g. rotation direction, walking direction), though not all variants can be combined together successfully.
List of mobs that can be spawned in the Mob tab:

Bee
Chicken (3+ variants)
Creeper (2+ variants)
Pig (2+ variants)
Slime (cannot be combined)
Skeleton (4+ variants)
Zombie (3+ variants)
List of blocks that can be spawned in the Blocks tab:

Dirt (dark, light)
Stone (dark, light)
TNT



			The combination of spawned blocks and mobs in 2025.



			Background to drop mob and blocks



			Size comparison of several mobs and their large counterparts.


Minecraft Launcher
The Minecraft Launcher has been updated with a new "skill" system, akin to that of an RPG game, where any user interaction increases their Exp Point count. These "skills" can be toggled under the "Select Skill" menu and apply various modifiers to the launcher itself. The higher the level, the more skills the player unlocks.
The launcher is capped at level 30, after which the player is unable to gain any more experience points. It is possible to set it a higher level – up to level 9001, which in itself is a reference to "It's Over 9000!" – by editing the properties in the JSON file. Functionally this does not unlock anything else and anything over level 30 defaults to level "LAUNCHER HACKER", while any level over 9001 automatically rolls back to level 0.

The player can change these properties inside the launcher_prefs.json located within their .minecraft folder:{
    "currentExperiencePointsPleaseDontHackThis": number, // (Current XP Count within Level, the amount required to level up scales per level)
    "currentLauncherLevelPleaseDontHackThis": number, // (Current Level)
    "enabledSkills": string[], // (Currently Applied "skills" to the launcher)
    "formatVersion": number,
    "version": number
}
These features can be toggled within the settings using the "Launcher Leveling System" toggle.



			Launchcraft Introduction



			The Launcher Leveling System in the launcher



			Launcher Skills



			A video showcasing the April Fools 2025 launcher



			The "Creator Spotlight" modifier


April Fools snapshot
Main article: Java Edition 25w14craftmine
A screenshot of the Craftmine Update.
Mojang Studios released the snapshot 25w14craftmine, also called the "Craftmine Update".
2025's April Fool's update, the Craftmine update, allows the player to use the new Mine Crafter to craft randomly generated levels, or "mines", to play through. The goal of each mine is to find the exit and craft the next mine. The mines appear to be generated similarly to the dimensions added in the 20w14∞ snapshot released in 2020.

2026
Minecraft Launcher
More baby mobs are on the Launcher, and hovering over a baby chicken spawns a bunch of them instead of 1 to 4, that follow the cursor, which has a seed on it.

April Fools snapshot
Main article: Java Edition 26w14a
A screenshot of the Herdcraft Update
Mojang Studios released snapshot 26w14a, also called the "Herdcraft Update". It disables many inventory features and instead allows the player to command "living blocks" using various tools in their hotbar, including Move, Attack / Mine, and Follow Me. Unlike other snapshots in 2026, it uses the old snapshot version format.

References

 "Stupid move cutting into my April fools time. I was going to announce minecraft in 4D. Just prentend like i did or something."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), March 31, 2010

 "Announcing the next step for minecraft."  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, April 1, 2010.

 "It’s finally coming – Minecraft 2.0!"  (archived)   by Dinnerbone  – Mojang.com, April 1, 2013.

 "Minecraft is Experiencing Some Problems"  (archived)   by Jens Bergensten  – Mojang.com, April 1, 2014.

 "They got to my twitter account too :S"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), April 1, 2014

 "The new controls work a lot better than the old one. Fun to play with one hand and in portrait. :)"  – @jbernhardsson (Johan Bernhardsson) on X (formerly Twitter), April 1, 2014

 "Minecraft snapshot 15w14a – The Love and Hugs Update"  (archived)   by Dinnerbone  – Mojang.com, April 1, 2015.

 "Minecraft 1.RV - The Trendy Update Pre-Release 1"  (archived)   by Jens Bergensten  – Mojang.com, March 31, 2016.

 "Introducing: The Mine & Craft Digital Leisure Device"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2017.

 "Java Edition Textures Finally Perfected"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2018.

 "April fools! The new Minecraft textures have a few more colours than this ;) If you restart Minecraft: Java Edition then it should all go back to normal now!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 2, 2018

 "Minecraft 3D Rediscovered"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2019.

 "Every update imaginable coming to Minecraft"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2020.

 "Introducing Minecraft Plus"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2021.

 "Mojang Studios release new astonishing update"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2022.

 "Introducing: The Vote Update"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2023.

 "Poisonous Potato Update"     – Minecraft.net, April 1, 2024.

 "Official Statement: Miles 'Tails' Prower"  – @SEGA  on X (formerly Twitter), April  1, 2025

 "Wow, great decision, Mr. A Fools!We checked in on Kilometers 'Tails' Prower, and they're excited for their new European Adventure 🧡Minecraft blocks are measured in meters, so this has simplified a lot for us."  – @gmodeone  on X (formerly Twitter), April  1, 2025

 https://www.minecraft.net/en-us

Navigation