Ask Mojang

Type

Ask me Anything (AMA)

Date

July 2, 2019 – May 10, 2022

Host(s)

Various Mojang employees

Available on

YouTube

{
    "title": "Ask Mojang",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:r/IAmA article, displayed as Ask me Anything) (AMA)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 2, 2019 – May 10, 2022",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Various (link to Mojang article, displayed as Mojang) employees",
            "label": "Host(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to YouTube article, displayed as YouTube)",
            "label": "Available on"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Ask Mojang, also referred to as Ask Mojang Home Edition, Ask Mojang Midsummer, and Ask Mojang Anything is a video series on the Minecraft YouTube channel, where Mojang employees answer any questions asked by Minecraft players, mostly on Twitter and YouTube posts that use the hashtag "#askmojang".
Created in July 2, 2019, the series' playlist currently counts with 28 videos.

Videos

Airing

Title

Thumbnail

Description

July 2, 2019

Ask Mojang #1: Vegan Ham & Megatron

Why shouldn’t you dig straight down? How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb, and what in blazes is a Sega Megatron? No question is too small for our team to answer in the new series Ask Mojang! Want to submit your own questions? Get on Twitter and tweet us to your heart’s content, using #askmojang.

August 12, 2019

Ask Mojang #2: Meaning of Life

What would Steve and Alex do if they saw a sphere? If Minecraft worlds are infinite, how does the sun go around them? Is anyone at Mojang's favourite update NOT the Update Aquatic? Discover the answers to these great mysteries of life, and many more, in our second Ask Mojang video! Want to submit your own questions? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang

August 28, 2019

Ask Mojang #3: The Villager Prank

No question is too small or too strange for the people of Mojang! Want to ask a question of your own? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

November 8, 2019

Ask Mojang #4: To The Moon!

In this episode, the team takes on the eternal question of chicken vs duck, their dream biome, and reveal how the developers decide which bug to tackle first (it may or may not be by rolling dice. Spoiler alert - it's not!) Want to submit your own questions? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang

December 6, 2019

Ask Mojang #5: Enderman jibber-jabber!

Are Endermen speaking English backwards? What even is an Enderman? What would Mojang order if they got Chinese food (apparently sweet-and-sour Enderman isn’t on the menu, so we had to come up with another answer)? Want to submit your own questions? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang

December 24, 2019

Ask Mojang holiday special with Jeb

What’s his favourite mob? Has he completed Minecraft Dungeons? How did he start working at Mojang? Why did he agree to do this video? Discover the answers to most of these questions right from Jeb’s delightful mouth in this Ask Mojang special! Want to submit your own questions? Tweet them to us with the hashtag #askmojang

January 10, 2020

Ask Mojang #6: Headless Villagers

How do we know so many languages? Where are the dungeons in Dungeons? Were any pandas harmed in the making of this game? We sat down to answer all your latest questions in this sixth episode of Ask Mojang!
Want to ask a question of your own? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

March 6, 2020

Ask Mojang #7: Minecraft Earth Edition!

Can you travel to the Nether in Minecraft Earth? Will muddy pigs and Mooblooms ever be added to the base game? When will we add more levels? And what on earth was the inspiration behind Minecraft Earth? In the seventh episode of Ask Mojang!, we’re taking a closer look at Minecraft Earth! Got a question for Mojang? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

April 3, 2020

Ask Mojang #8: PET THE DOG?

Can we pet the mobs yet?! In the eighth installment of Ask Mojang, we’re answering your burning questions about Java vs. Bedrock, our first impressions of Minecraft, and if we’re actually shutting down in 2020 (!?!). Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

April 25, 2020

Ask Mojang Home Edition #1: Shulker origin reveal!

Lydia catches up with Jens and Agnes (and one of her cats!) in the first Ask Mojang Home Edition. Find out which mobs they would want to keep as pets, their favorite thing about interacting with the Minecraft community, and if Jens will ever release a full version of the #Jensrap. The people have spoken, Jens, and they need this track and they need it now!                                                                                              Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

May 2, 2020

Ask Mojang Home Edition #2: Snack Attack

In the second Ask Mojang: Home Edition, Lydia talks to Marc and Yesenia about Enderman allergies, how they’re staying sane these days, the best things that have happened to the Minecraft community, and most importantly SNACKS. Lots of snacks. Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang !

May 9, 2020

Ask Mojang Home Edition #3: Extra Levels?!

In the third installment of Ask Mojang Home Edition, Lydia is joined by David and Nathan from the Minecraft Dungeons team! Check out the video to find out if Dungeons is based on the Bedrock engine, if there are more levels after you beat the game, and which games they’re currently playing (hint: one of them will be released in May!) Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

June 18, 2020

Ask Mojang Midsummer Special with Jeb

Join Jeb for a sunny Midsummer edition of Ask Mojang! Find out how the chorus plant got its name, where the idea for the Blaze came from, and his favorite feature in the upcoming Nether Update! Could it be that there’s even more lava? Only one way to find out! Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

July 3, 2020

Ask Mojang #9: Cactus Punch!

Welcome to the ninth installment of Ask Mojang! Find out what our plans for goats are, some of our favorite community made hacks, if Ghasts use echolocation to sense players, and most importantly what echolocation is. We didn’t pause production to look it up, promise. Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!

August 7, 2020

Ask Mojang #10: Electricity or Magic?

In the tenth edition of Ask Mojang, we find out why villagers hum, the funniest glitches we’ve encountered, and where babies comes from. Baby villagers that is! Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us @minecraft, or leave a comment below, using #askmojang!NOTE: This episode was filmed before the COVID-19 pandemic which is why it was filmed in the studio!

October 30, 2020

Ask Mojang #11: All About Caves & Cliffs

In this special edition of Ask Mojang, Adrian sits down with the Caves & Cliffs team to talk about Cory’s top 10 bee puns. There is no mention of new blocks, ores, and mobs. Definitely no discussions about how your existing mountains and caves will be affected. Nobody answers any in-depth questions about game mechanics. Move along folks, there are no un-bee-lievable reveals here.

December 4, 2020

Ask Mojang #12: Fish Slaps!

In this episode of Ask Mojang, Patrick, Sara, and Oleg talk about hostile mobs, what it was like working with Super Smash Bros., and how they decide which blocks are given multiple variations. Only one of these involves an in-house battle, can you guess which one?

December 24, 2020

Ask Mojang: Holiday Special with Jeb and Lydia

In this Holiday Special of Ask Mojang, join Lydia who tries to get Jeb to spill the beans about how to tame an axolotl, if the warden is related to the End, and will the fletching table ever serve a purpose?! They also take a look at some amazing fan art, discuss what they’re looking forward to in the new year, and what’s going on with a certain someone’s board game collection!

January 15, 2021

Ask Mojang #13: Beans, please!

In this episode of Ask Mojang, Christine, Paulo, Nir, and Felix reveal which cave they would live in, their favorite bugs when we added bees, and why the enchanted golden apple recipe was removed from Minecraft!

February 5, 2021

Ask Mojang #14: Coding to the Classics!

Join Agnes, Joel, and Jasper in our latest episode of Ask Mojang! They answer your questions about how you add a biome, why we need to wait a little bit longer for the Caves and Cliffs update, and which bugs were too good to fix! Perhaps because they were just so bee-utiful?ref name=:20/>

March 19, 2021

Ask Mojang #15: Mobs

Henrik, Kasia, Fanny, Rebecca and Pumba the pug answer your questions about mobs! Find out if there are any plans for different types of dogs, tame bats, and new spider behaviors. The only question that remains is if this group have the power to remove the phantom from the game?

April 23, 2021

Ask Mojang #16: Tools and Gear

Join Christine, Abby, Cory and Jen for an episode of Ask Mojang dedicated to tools and gear! Find out how we work with community feedback, if we’re planning copper tools and armor, and why the crossbow can shoot fireworks! Was it because we had a certain pop song on repeat in the office that day? There’s only one way to find out!

May 7, 2021

Ask Mojang #17: Minecraft Dungeons

Laura, David, and Kristian answer all of your burning questions about Minecraft Dungeons! Learn about upcoming levels and content, the process that goes into adding new levels, what inspired the Arch-Illager and how to submit your own ideas! If you have more questions for us, tweet us or leave a comment using #AskMojang

June 18, 2021

Ask Mojang #18: More Mobs!

Matthew, Anna, and Thommy answer your questions about the glorious dirt block. Just kidding, they’re here to talk about mobs! Have you ever wondered why the enderdragon stays on the spawn island? Or how we come up with new mobs? And which mob would be our mascot if the creeper didn’t exist? Find out in this mob-velous episode of Ask Mojang! Do you have any questions for us? Tweet us or leave us a comment with #AskMojang

August 6, 2021

Ask Mojang #19: Deep Dive into Dungeons (and Dinner?!)

Join David, Laura, and Kristian for another deep dive into Minecraft Dungeons! They answer your questions about the soundtrack, if they follow the same rules as the Minecraft Vanilla team, and what challenges they face when adding new weapons and enchantments.

November 12, 2021

The cutest mob Minecraft ever made?! - Ask Mojang # 20

Which mob should have won the mob vote in Minecraft Live 2021? Was the allay the right choice, or should it have been the copper golem? Or the glare, or are Mojang fans getting enough vegetables as it is? Chi, Cory, and Brandon answer these and even more community questions, including a discussion about the smells and sounds of the Deep Dark, the Warden’s alleged cheese preferences, and give us some insight into the frogs and fireflies that that join the game in The Wild Update 1.19!

February 18, 2022

Minecraft 1.18 - Your questions answered! #AskMojang

While hanging lamps, dodging snowballs, and strolling through a winter wonderland, the Minecraft devs and a couple of cats answer your questions bout the Minecraft 1.18 update! Find out about the code changes that were made, the amount of testing that was done, and how challenging it was bringing parity to different platforms for the Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II. But one question remains – are the cats mainly napping on top of laps or laptops? Additional surveys have been sent out.

May 10, 2022

Ask Mojang: What happened to the fireflies in Minecraft 1.19?

Have you been wondering what the allay is based off, if goat horns and bundles are included in The Wild Update, or if we use Blockbench to build our models? You’re in luck, because we’ve got answers aplenty! We also have a special message regarding questions about fireflies and birch forests being added to Minecraft, so tune in and keep sending us your questions!

References

 "Brand new video series – Ask Mojang!"     by Kelsey Howard  – Minecraft.net, July 2, 2019.

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #1: Shulker origin reveal!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 25, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #2: Snack Attack"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 2, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #3: Extra Levels?!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 9, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Midsummer Special with Jeb"  – Minecraft on YouTube, June 18, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Anything (AMA): Minecraft Live 2022"     by Michelle A.  – Minecraft.net, October 27, 2022.

 "Ask Mojang #1: Vegan Ham & Megatron"  – Minecraft on YouTube, July 2, 2019

 "Ask Mojang #2: Meaning of Life"  – Minecraft on YouTube, July 2, 2019

 "Ask Mojang #3: The Villager Prank"  – Minecraft on YouTube, August 28, 2019

 "Ask Mojang #4: To The Moon!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 8, 2019

 "Ask Mojang #5: Enderman jibber-jabber!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 6, 2019

 "Ask Mojang holiday special with Jeb"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 24, 2019

 "Ask Mojang #6: Headless Villagers"  – Minecraft on YouTube, January 10, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #7: Minecraft Earth Edition!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, March 6, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #8: PET THE DOG?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 3, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #1: Shulker origin reveal!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 25, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #2: Snack Attack"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 2, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Home Edition #3: Extra Levels?!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 9, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Midsummer Special with Jeb"  – Minecraft on YouTube, June 18, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #9: Cactus Punch!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, July 3, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #10: Electricity or Magic?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, August 7, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #11: All About Caves & Cliffs"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 30, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #12: Fish Slaps!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 4, 2020

 "Ask Mojang: Holiday Special with Jeb and Lydia"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 24, 2020

 "Ask Mojang #13: Beans, please!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, January 15, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #14: Coding to the Classics!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, February 5, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #15: Mobs"  – Minecraft on YouTube, March 19, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #16: Tools and Gear"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 23, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #17: Minecraft Dungeons"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 7, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #18: More Mobs!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, June 18, 2021

 "Ask Mojang #19: Deep Dive into Dungeons (and Dinner?!)"  – Minecraft on YouTube, August 6, 2021

 "The cutest mob Minecraft ever made?! - Ask Mojang # 20"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 12, 2021

 "Minecraft 1.18 - Your questions answered! #AskMojang"  – Minecraft on YouTube, February 18, 2022

 "Ask Mojang: What happened to the fireflies in Minecraft 1.19?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 10, 2022

Navigation