This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article is missing information about: Dan Bittner, Maxwell Glick 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Alongside the release of Minecraft books are audiobooks, hosted by several different narrators.

Contents

1 Narrators
2 Gallery
3 References
4 Navigation

Narrators

Name

Photo

Book(s)

Notes

Ref

Jack Black

Minecraft: The Island

Also portrayed Steve in A Minecraft Movie.

Samira Wiley

An American actress, best known for her roles as Poussey Washington in Orange Is the New Black and Moira in The Handmaid's Tale.

January LaVoy

Minecraft: The Crash

An American actress and audiobook narrator, with a portfolio of hundreds. As an actress, she is most well known for Noelle Ortiz-Stubbs on One Life to Live.

Emily Shaffer

Minecraft: The Lost Journals
Minecraft: The End
Minecraft: Mob Squad: Don't Fear the Creeper

An American film actress, dancer, and audio book narrator, getting her start on How to Make It in America.

Euan Morton

Minecraft: The Voyage

A Scottish actor and singer, best known for portraying Boy George in the musical Taboo, as well as King George in Hamilton from July 2017 to 10 September 2023.

Dan Bittner

The Rise of the Arch-Illager

Maxwell Glick

Minecraft: The Shipwreck

Đavid Lee Huỳnh

An American theater and screen actor.

Rebecca Soler

An American voice actress, known for her work as the narrator of The Lunar Chronicles and Miu Nomura in Piano: The Melody of a Young Girl's Heart.

Sean Astin

Minecraft: The Mountain
Minecraft: The Village

Also portrayed Reginald in Minecraft: Story Mode.

Nicole Lewis

Minecraft: The Dragon

An American actress, known for work in Broadway, film, and television.

Gallery



			Samira Wiley narrating.



			Jack Black narrating.


References

 "The Mountain"     by Alex Wiltshire  – Minecraft.net, March 2, 2021.

 "High School Buddies Max Brooks and Sean Astin Climb Minecraft: The Mountain Together"     by Molly Templeton  – Reactor, February 23, 2021.

 "Minecraft Audiobook Available for Pre-order!"     – Max Brooks, July 13, 2017.

 "Audibooks narrated by Samira Wiley"     – Audible.

 "Minecraft: The Crash Audiobook"     – Audible.

 "Minecraft: The Lost Journals Audiobook"     – Audible.

 "The End Audiobook"     – Audible.

 "Minecraft: Mob Squad: Don't Fear the Creeper Audiobook"     – Audible.

 "Minecraft: The Voyage Audiobook"     – Audible.

 "David Lee Huynh"     by https://www.beeaudio.com/narrator/david-lee-huynh+ – BeeAudio.

 "Rebecca Soler"     – Penguin Random House.

 "Nicole Lewis"     – Penguin Random House.

Navigation