This page only covers Markus Persson's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Markus Persson, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.

Markus Persson

Real name

Markus Alexej Persson

Date of birth

June 1, 1979 (age 47)

Occupation

Game developer

Nationality

Swedish

Known for

Creating Minecraft, founder of Mojang Studios

Also known as

Notch

Reddit name

xNotch

Twitter handle

@notch

Instagram name

notchite

YouTube channel

Markus Persson

Minecraft name

Notch

{
    "title": "Markus Persson",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Markus Alexej Persson",
            "label": "Real name"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 1, 1979 <span data-isodate=\"1979-06-01\">(age 47)</span>",
            "label": "Date of birth"
        },
        {
            "field": "Game developer",
            "label": "Occupation"
        },
        {
            "field": "Swedish",
            "label": "Nationality"
        },
        {
            "field": "Creating ''Minecraft'', founder of Mojang Studios",
            "label": "Known for"
        },
        {
            "field": "Notch",
            "label": "Also known as"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.reddit.com/user/xNotch xNotch]",
            "label": "Reddit name"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://twitter.com/notch @notch]",
            "label": "Twitter handle"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.instagram.com/notchite notchite]",
            "label": "Instagram name"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.youtube.com/@_notch Markus Persson]",
            "label": "YouTube channel"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://namemc.com/Notch <span title=\"view skin\">Notch</span>]",
            "label": "''Minecraft'' name"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Notch.jpg"
    ]
}

Markus Alexej Persson, more commonly known under the alias Notch, is the original creator of Minecraft and one of the founders of Mojang Studios. He is no longer involved in the game since his departure from Mojang in 2014.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Departure from Mojang

2 Games and other work

2.1 Games
2.2 Java 4k
2.3 Ludum Dare Games
2.4 2.5D Engines
2.5 Unreleased

2.5.1 BitSeven Productions

3 Quotes
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Photographs
5.2 Screenshots
5.3 Renders
5.4 Illustrations
5.5 Icons

6 See also
7 References
8 External links
9 Navigation

Biography
Persson started programming at the age of seven, using his father's Commodore 128. He produced his first game (a text-adventure) at the age of eight, with the help of type-in programs. In 2005 he started working as a game developer for King.com, which he left in 2009 to work as a programmer at Jalbum. He is also one of the founders of Wurm Online. After Minecraft sales grew, he moved from full-time to part-time at Jalbum and then eventually left to focus full-time on Minecraft in June 2010; many of the original Mojang employees (including former CEO Carl Manneh) were also ex-Jalbum employees. After the full release of Minecraft (1.0.0), Persson transferred creative authority of the game's development to Jens Bergensten, afterwards continuing to help out with Minecraft while also working on a new project.
Persson engaged Ez during a vacation in Indonesia, and married her on August 13, 2011. The two separated on August 15, 2012. Her brother, Kristoffer, is one of the artists whose paintings appear in the game.
Outside of work, Persson frequently took part in competitions, including Ludum Dare and the Java 4K Game Programming Contest.

Departure from Mojang
Persson sold Mojang and all of its assets to Microsoft on September 15, 2014. In a blog post, Notch states "I love games and I love to program, but I don't make games with the intention of them becoming huge hits, and I don't try to change the world." He then goes on to say that "I've become a symbol. I don't want to be a symbol, responsible for something huge that I don't understand, that I don't want to work on."
Persson left Mojang on November 5, 2014, along with the other founders. He wrote that "as soon as this deal is finalized, I will leave Mojang and go back to doing Ludum Dares and small web experiments. If I ever accidentally make something that seems to gain traction, I'll probably abandon it immediately."
Persson has not been involved with Minecraft since selling Mojang to Microsoft, and the company has disassociated with him since 2019 following a series of controversial tweets on Twitter, with a spokesperson for Microsoft stating that Persson's comments and opinions do not reflect those of Microsoft or Mojang and are not representative of Minecraft. Persson had been known for making inflammatory tweets as early as 2016.
On August 15, 2024, Notch replied to a tweet, stating that he liked the change that Mojang made to the appearance of redstone torches. On September 29, 2024, Notch tweeted that the creaking “looks awesome”, and that “thought should be put into” whether or not a mob drops loot. On September 4, 2024, Notch commented on the teaser trailer for A Minecraft Movie.

Games and other work
Notch has released much of his work, including, but not limited to:

Games
Droj, a multiplayer game.
DachonB, a gravity based shooter.
Wurm Online, an MMO featuring sandbox elements similar to Minecraft.
Wrath of Magranon, a singleplayer game made by Notch to test LWJGL for Wurm.
LogicHex, a hexagonal logic gate builder.
Infinite Mario Bros, a Super Mario clone featuring an endlessly-long level.
Takns, a strategy game with tanks.
Blast Passage, an 8-Bit mashup between Bomberman and Gauntlet.
TowerFail, a failed attempt at a ludum dare game.
TinyCham, a dungeon crawler with a 40×30 pixel resolution.
Eye of the Onlooker II - The Legend of Tinymoon, a sequel to TinyCham.
Road, a racing game.
Minecraft, a block game.
Jack Guzi, a platformer game about a deranged man cleaning his bathroom.
Muh, a rhythm game.
Launch, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
Her, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
Anttack, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
Sunshine Bubbles, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
CatRace, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
15m, a game for the 2010 Bigjam competition.
Herp Fortress, a Team Fortress 2 demake.
Drop, a typing game that increases in speed as you play.
Shambles, a hectic shooter greatly inspired by Doom.
Cliffhorse, an open-ended game in which you play as a horse that can scale cliffs.
Java 4k
Sonic Racer 4k, a racing game with stolen sprites.
Dungeon4k, a dungeon exploration game.
Hunters4k, a first person shooter.
Miners4k, a game kind of inspired by Lemmings and Diggers.
 Dachon4k, a 4k remake of DachonB.
l4krits, a Luxor clone.
t4kns, a real time strategy game.
Left 4k Dead, a zombie shooter game inspired by Left 4 Dead.
Left 4k Dead 2, a zombie shooter game inspired by Left 4 Dead 2.
MEG4kMAN, a Mega Man clone featuring old-school graphics.
Minecraft 4k, Minecraft in less than 4 KB for a Java 4k competition.
VVVV, a VVVVVV demake.
Ludum Dare Games
Breaking the Tower, a slow-paced strategy game.
Bunny Press, a violent puzzle game made for Ludum Dare 14.
The Europa Arcology Incident, an RPG-style game Notch made in 48 hours for Ludum Dare 16.
Metagun, a puzzle game Notch made in 48 hours for Ludum Dare 18.
Prelude of the Chambered, an escape game Notch made in 48 hours for Ludum Dare 21.
Minicraft, a top-down Zelda-esque game with elements from Minecraft, made for Ludum Dare 22.
Last Minute Christmas Chopping, in which you play as Santa collecting wood to build a sleigh.
Drowning in Problems, a clicker game that gets progressively more complicated.
2.5D Engines
Flashmaze, a first person shooter prototype in flash.
Flash doom level renderer.
Dungeon master type game engine in Java.
Legend of the Chambered, a dungeon crawler containing many textures that were reused in Minecraft.
Legend of the Chambered 2, an updated version of Legend of the Chambered.
City, an engine and walking test with walls.
HL2RPG, a Java Dungeon Master like prototype which uses Half-Life 2 assets.
He's currently working actively on a new game under his new studio BitShift Entertainment called Levers & Chests.
Notch also has a soundcloud page which includes 53 tracks in total. He would sometimes use his music on his old YouTube channel Nizzotch.

Unreleased
BitSeven Productions
Information from this set of images, verified through this article:

3D1, a free-roaming engine based on Wolfenstein.
Ruby, a free-scrolling engine inspired by JRPGs.
ISOM, an isometric renderer test which included a random terrain generator.
Turbo, an "over-the top side scrolling shooter."
IQ Ball 2, a sequel to IQ Ball, where the object of the game is to get a ball safely to the goal, and in which all balls are moved when a directional key is pressed.
HEDE, a platformer that involved shooting slimes with a gun.
HEDE 2, the sequel to HEDE, albeit top-down instead of a platformer.
Rubylands x, a tile based roguelike.
RUBYLAND, a "first person tile based dungeon crawler."
Howl, "a Megaman-type game."
STRAT, inspired by Dune 2.
Other

Rubylands, a fantasy group manager.
RubyDung, a Dwarf Fortress-inspired game containing textures that were reused in Minecraft.
Zombie Town, a GTA: Chinatown Wars-inspired game containing models that were reused in Minecraft.
Legend of the Chambered - Book 1, an unfinished TinyGame2010 submission.
The Tiny Vikings, another unfinished TinyGame2010 submission.
Super Me4k Boy, a super meat boy demake.
Brickcraft, a sandbox game developed in collaboration with the LEGO group.
Santa vs Cthulhu, a real time strategy game where you play as either Santa or Cthulhu.
Minitale, a sequel to Minicraft.
0x10c, a space sandbox game featuring programmable spacecraft.
Quotes
“Imagine countless wiki editors all using each others work as  basis for their own, reasoning what must be true from what they already assume is.Wouldn't that make for a weird reality?„ — Notch on January 6, 2020
Trivia
On June 1, 2011, Notch posted on Twitter that he was 25 years old. 25 is 32, which was his age at the time.
As of September 30, 2009, Notch is "a certified Open Water Diver."
Notch programmed the Minecraft splash screen to display "Happy Birthday, Notch!" all day on June 1. This was removed in Java Edition 1.8.5.
From Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414 until Java Edition 1.3.1, Notch (or any player using his name in offline mode) would drop an apple along with his inventory when killed in singleplayer – a reference to a joke included in an unofficial crafting guide. This feature never functioned in multiplayer, and thus broke entirely when singleplayer was converted to an internal server in snapshot 12w18a.
Although Mojang has since distanced themselves from Notch and removed most references to him from the game, the associated bug tracker issue for this remains open.
Notch did not migrate to a Microsoft account, evident by his account not having a Migrator Cape.
Notch has further acknowledged this in a reply.
Notch has arachnophobia.
Gallery
Photographs



			Notch on his phone



			Notch wearing his iconic black fedora



			Notch smiling



			Notch with his fans at MinecraftCon 2010



			Notch surrounded by fans



			Notch using his computer



			Notch (left) and Seananners (right) at the Machinima Realm Minecraft Interview; February 11, 2011



			Notch unboxing his new hat



			At MINECON 2011



			Notch cutting a cake at MINECON 2011



			Notch at the 2016 Game Developers Conference



			A "normal" image of Notch from his blog



			Notch in front of the Mojang sign



			Notch accepting an award



			Notch accepting another award



			Notch with some other developers



			Notch and Jeb at PAX Prime 2011



			Notch and some other devs



			Ice sculpture of Notch's head



			Notch from "Hi scurrilous_!" video


Screenshots



			Notch's unique yellow name tag in a Java Edition Classic 0.30 server



			Notch with other players in the MINECON 2010 server



			Notch sneaking around in Minecraft



			Notch wearing his Mojang cape



			Notch in a server



			Ditto


Renders



			Notch's skin in Minecraft



			Notch's one-of-a-kind hat in the game Team Fortress 2, given to him by the developers



			The "Minecraft Notch Hat" Xbox 360 avatar item


Illustrations



			Notch's Mojavatar



			Notch icon on Adweek's The Top 10 Technologists


Icons



			Notch's Xmas 2011 Twitter icon



			Notch's steam profile picture



			Notch's YouTube profile picture showing Kirby with Steve's Copy Ability from Super Smash Bros. Ultimate


See also
Kristoffer Zetterstrand - Former brother-in-law
The Word of Notch - Former blog
Nizzotch - Former YouTube channel
References

 "Turning 30 is scary."   (Archive)  by Markus Persson  – The Word of Notch, May 27, 2009. "Today’s Wednesday. I start my new job on Monday. I also turn 30 on Monday.In other news, gamejolt.com seems pretty promising."

 "Interview: Markus 'Notch' Persson Talks Making Minecraft"   (Archive)  by Alex Handy  – Game Developer, March 22, 2010.

 "MARKUS PERSSON: SPECIAL AWARD"     by Jamie Russell  – BAFTA, March 2, 2012.

 "MINECRAFT MASTERMIND MARKUS PERSSON TO RECEIVE BAFTA SPECIAL AWARD"     by Kristoff Clark  – BAFTA, March 5, 2012.

 "Minecraft Mastermind Markus Persson To Receive Bafta Special Award"     by Kristoff Clark  – Gamasutra, March 5, 2012.

 "Notch steps down as lead developer on Minecraft to focus on 'new project'"     by Christopher Grant  – Engadget, December 2, 2011.

 "Och med dom orden så passar jag micken."   (Archive)  by Markus Persson  – The Word of Notch, December 2, 2011. "Personally, I will now rest for a while, then get back to work refreshed and eager. I’ll be helping out with Minecraft, of course, but also starting work on some new project."

 "@Pat_Man12 We actually got engaged in your country :D Indonesia is very beautiful!"  – @ezchili  on X (formerly Twitter), June 7, 2011 (Archive)

 "Illness!"   (Archive)  by Markus Persson  – The Word of Notch, September 30, 2009. "I’m now a certified Open Water Diver"

 "As of today, I am single. #mixedemotions"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), August 15, 2012 (Archive)

  "Notch!" (§ Hobby Programming)  (Archive)  by Markus Persson  – mojang.com.

 "I’m leaving Mojang"   (Archive)  by Markus Persson  – notch.net, September 15, 2014.

 "‘Minecraft’ Creator Excluded From Anniversary Due to ‘Comments and Opinions’ (EXCLUSIVE)"     by Brian Crecente  – Variety, April 19, 2019.

 https://www.lgbtqnation.com/2019/03/minecraft-creator-went-transphobic-rant-twitter-wasnt/

 "The updated redstone models have inverted cubes"  – @CagilMartin  on X (formerly Twitter), August 15, 2024"I like it!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), August 15, 2024

 "Notch do u like the new drop of Minecraft?"  – @ZYJ27726  on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2024"I haven't seen it, hang on"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2024"The creaking? I've only seen a picture just now, but that thing looks awesome."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2024

 "Mob has no drop.No point of it being in game IMHO.Should be a general rule.If no drop, other worthwhile gameplay loop needed.Why would players seek out a mob that does nothing more than once?"  – @docm77  on X (formerly Twitter), September 28, 2024"I agree thought should be but into it, but I'd say this is too genre specific to be a general rule.Games like Robotron and Ultrakill (and I guess the new doom games in the arenas, if we ignore the drops) require you to hunt down and kill all enemies as the core loop itself."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2024

 "The first trailer for the live-action ‘MINECRAFT’ movie has been released.In theaters on April 4, 2025."  – @DiscussingFilm  on X (formerly Twitter), September 4, 2024"Ok i'm inWow this is a weird feeling."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 4, 2024

 https://theintraclinic.com/archive/

 "Imagine countless wiki editors all using each others work as  basis for their own, reasoning what must be true from what they already assume is.Wouldn't that make for a weird reality?"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), January 6, 2020

 "It's my birthday, and I'm turning 2^5 today! ez got me saké (for later) and breakfast (for now). :D <3"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), June 1, 2011

 https://echidnatribe.org/Minecraft/crafting.php (This is an unofficial recreation with the original domain)

 MC-96781 – Player with the name Notch does not drop an apple at death anymore

 "Thanks for the heads up!I approve of this, let's see what fun memes they come up with :)"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), May 15, 2023

 "I've never seen the spiders in engine.Someone made them spawn 10% of the time.I have arachnophobia."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), May 8, 2025

External links
Wikipedia article on Persson
SoundCloud page
List of Notch's games on mojang.com
Navigation