"Store" redirects here.  For the April Fools' joke, see Minecraft store.
 "DLC" redirects here.  For Minecraft Dungeons downloadable content, see Dungeons:Downloadable Content.
 Not to be confused with Legends:Marketplace.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

The Minecraft Marketplace menu in Bedrock Edition
The Marketplace (known as the Store on PlayStation) is an in-game platform where players can purchase access to content created by both Minecraft and members of the Minecraft Partner Program. As of June 25, 2026, it contains about 36,719 pages of downloadable content from 326 creators.

Contents

1 Usage

1.1 Minecoins
1.2 Subscriptions

2 Content

2.1 Skin packs
2.2 Worlds

2.2.1 Dynamic worlds
2.2.2 Adventure maps
2.2.3 Minigames
2.2.4 Survival spawns

2.3 Texture packs
2.4 Mash-up packs
2.5 Add-ons

3 Minecraft Affiliate Program
4 Videos
5 History
6 Issues
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Promotional
8.2 Screenshots
8.3 Assets

9 References
10 Navigation

Usage
The Marketplace is opened from the title screen, game menu (Browse Add-ons!), or dressing room, the former showing an animated button promoting new DLC and sometimes a tag. Throughout the menus are other buttons redirecting to the Marketplace, such as in resource pack or world template selection menus. Furthermore, Marketplace content is often promoted with pop-ups or inbox messages.
It is only available with a stable Internet connection and a Microsoft account, and not in the trial version. The Marketplace is also available from Minecraft.net, where packs can be browsed similar to the in-game menu, purchased once signed in, and even the game can be launched opening the selected pack's page in the Marketplace.

The purchase screen of a Marketplace pack
The menu promotes various types of content organized into sections. With the Search tool, the player can filter for name, pack type, price, ratings, tags, individual creators, or Marketplace Pass availability. Every pack has a purchase page with more information, tags, images and videos, and purchase or download options. Packs can be added to the Wishlist using the heart icon, and the link to the pack on Minecraft.net can be shared.
Once obtained, packs can be downloaded to the device at any time. Depending on the type of pack, it can then be activated or played. The bottom of the purchase page allows to rate owned packs stars, which will be shown by the pack. Downloaded packs are automatically updated while in the menus; this can be toggled in the settings.

Minecoins
Most content in the Marketplace costs money, and is purchased using Minecoins, although some content is free. Minecoins are obtained in the Marketplace with real money in selected packs, or along with promoted content in content bundles. They are saved to a player's Xbox account; on PlayStation they are called tokens and sold separately.
All purchased content instantly syncs to the player's Microsoft account unless not signed into the Microsoft or console account on consoles, in which case it is saved locally to the player's device.

Subscriptions
Marketplace Pass artwork Marketplace Pass is a monthly subscription that allows any subscribers to get access to a variety of Marketplace content that changes monthly as long as they pay a monthly fee. Included content can be activated directly from its own tab in screens with Marketplace content, such as the Create from Template screen. The Marketplace Pass is included in Realms Plus subscriptions.
Content
 "DLC" redirects here.  For DLC in Minecraft Dungeons, see Dungeons:DLC.  For DLC in Minecraft Legends, see Legends:Lost Legend.  For DLC in Minecraft: Story Mode, see Story Mode:DLC.
There are 5 different categories of content available on the Marketplace, including skin packs, worlds, add-ons, texture packs, and mash-up packs. All content is submitted by official Minecraft partners and is approved by the Minecraft Content Team. The Minecraft Wiki only documents officially promoted DLC, third-party content usually has its own documentation.

Skin packs
Main article: Skin pack
Skin packs are collections of custom skins that players can use in both singleplayer and multiplayer games. Depending on the specific content, some skin packs provide 1 or 2 free skins to use without needing to purchase.
Skin packs can be seen in the Dressing Room, allowing to enable included skins.

Worlds
The Marketplace Pass screen, accessible from the Play screen
Worlds are pre-built maps that offer wide variety of in-game experiences. Not to be confused with mash-up packs, worlds can also include custom textures, blocks, items and mobs and be bundled with bonus skins.
Worlds in the Marketplace are distributed as world templates; they can be downloaded in the Create from Template screen allowing to create a world using the template.

Dynamic worlds
Dynamic worlds don't have a set build like normal pre-built ones, instead they can be generated like a Minecraft world. These worlds allow for a whole new experience every time because they generate differently depending on the seed. Sometimes they also include add-ons and texture packs as well.

Adventure maps
Adventure maps are self-contained experiences that focus on exploring and other types of guided gameplay. These types of worlds can range from PvP arenas to simulators and can be designed for singleplayer, multiplayer or both.

Minigames
Minigames are compact worlds with a specific theme or goal that are designed to be repeatable. These can feature a set of different gamemodes and variants or be designed to reset continuously.

Survival spawns
Survival spawns are starter maps that players can explore, gain loot from and expand. Maps of this type can sometimes add an entirely new aspect to the game but still allows players to experience the world as they normally would in survival mode.

Texture packs
Main article: Texture pack (downloadable content)
Texture packs, built from resource packs, allow players to change the visual appearance of worlds. These packs can also customize other in-game elements such as sounds, items, the GUI, the geometry/shape of mobs, animations, and Vibrant Visuals. Texture packs are only able to alter existing features in Minecraft and cannot add new mobs, blocks or items.
Texture packs can be enabled from the Global Resources settings tab in the main menu. Unless a world or server disables global resources, they can always be enabled locally on the player's device.

Mash-up packs
Main article: Mash-up pack
Mash-up packs are special bundles that combine a world, texture pack and skins. Unlike worlds, texture packs included in mash-up packs can be used across other singleplayer worlds and even servers.

Add-ons
Main article: Add-on
Add-ons are resource and behavior packs that can fully customize the game by adding new items, blocks, mobs, and more. Add-ons can be added to any world. They can be played and accessed on both singleplayer and multiplayer.

Minecraft Affiliate Program
The Minecraft Affiliate Program allows members to earn commissions through Impact.com based on advertised Marketplace content. Once applicants are approved, they receive trackable links to Marketplace content they're promoting which grants them, by default, a 5% commission of sales from referrals. Admission to the program depends on "having quality content, an engaged audience, and a history of driving meaningful traffic."

Videos









History
Pocket EditionApril 10, 2017
Marketplace announced.1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.8
Marketplace added, but the name in the game remained "Store".1.1.5
Moved all Marketplace related modules into a separate library.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Added an option to buy 3500 coins for US$19.99.release
Part of the sales content of Xbox One Marketplace are now offered in the Marketplace as Xbox One Edition has become part of Bedrock Edition.1.2.5beta 1.2.5.0
Added a 5-star content rating system to the Marketplace.beta 1.2.5.12
Added an option to buy 8800 coins for US$49.99.1.2.13beta 1.2.13.5
Added search functionality to the Marketplace.1.4.0beta 1.2.14.2
Added an inventory section to allow the player to manage their acquired content.

Added sorting and filtering to the Marketplace1.7.0beta 1.7.0.2
Finding purchased content, searching, and going home from the top of the Marketplace screen has been made easier.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.10
The player can now send links to Marketplace content using the share button.

Content can now be sorted by 'Updates available' in the Marketplace inventory.

Content can now be sorted and filtered by rating.1.12.0beta 1.12.0.3
The "Store" button has been renamed to "Marketplace".1.14.0
Bedrock Edition was added to the PlayStation 4 platform, alongside the Marketplace and the Token currency. It was initially called the "Minecraft Store".1.16.0beta 1.15.0.51
There have been some small changes to the downloads.1.16.200beta 1.16.200.53
Added various UI elements to communicate ray tracing capabilities in the Marketplace (Windows 10 Only).

Resource packs in the Marketplace are now aware of ray tracing capabilities and display a label indicating support in the UI.

Attempting to purchase and/or download a resource pack that requires ray tracing notifies the user of a purchasing error when that user does not have the required min-spec hardware.1.20.70
Marketplace Pass released for all platforms.1.21.120
Marketplace packs can now support Vibrant Visuals, and filter options for graphics modes have been added.Upcoming Bedrock EditionPreview 26.50.20
 Wishlist marketplace screen has been updated to match Ore UI, available in Preview only.
Issues
Issues relating to "Marketplace" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Before the Minecraft Marketplace was introduced, real money was used to buy the in-game mash-up pack, texture packs and skin packs. When Mojang Studios did it this way, all of the content had to pass certification on every single platform. The Marketplace and Minecoins were introduced to avoid this.
Players can still buy them using real money directly by purchasing the corresponding amount of Minecoins on the pack purchase page.
Any packs that were bought before the Marketplace was introduced are marked as "Owned (P)" instead of "Owned".
Packs that are marked as "Owned (P)" do not sync across devices.
Skins, add-ons and worlds downloaded from the Marketplace are not stored in the skin_packs, behavior_packs, resource_packs, or world_templates folders in com.mojang. They are instead stored in the premium_cache folder and are encrypted.
The map Beyond: Platformer claims to have been awarded a "Diamond Pick" award, citing "innovation and fun!" No other recipients of this award are known to exist.
Gallery
Promotional



			Promotional banner used on the homepage of the Marketplace's website



			Artwork of Steve, Alex, and a Villager standing in front of a smartphone with the Minecoin purchase screen, with Swedish Kronas as the currency



			Artwork of Steve and Alex, used to promote the Summer sale



			Another render, featuring a dolphin and baby turtles



			Promotional artwork of several Minecoins



			Promotional banner of Zuri, made for the 2023 Summer Celebration



			Kai and several mobs looking at many Marketplace items



			Promotion for the Start a New Minecraft Story campaign



			Noor, Kai, Makena, and Sunny driving a Universal Studios bus, alongside Jurassic Park, How to Train Your Dragons, and Despicable Me characters



			Promotional banner showing Steve, Alex, Efe, and Kai using various custom add-on items



			Promotional artwork released alongside the Change your game, your way! cinematic trailer



			Header image Block Friday Sale 2024



			Header image New Years Sale 2024



			Header image for Lunar New Years Sale 2025



			Promotion of The Popcorn Bucket Hat/Tee



			Ditto



			Marketplace Pass from April 2025



			Header image for Spring Sale 2025



			Marketplace 5 year celebration artwork


Screenshots



			The front page of the Marketplace



			The My Content tab



			The Add-Ons tab



			The New Releases tab



			An empty wishlist tab



			The Pop Culture tab, where collaborative DLC is promoted



			The Top Sellers tab



			A unique loading screen for the Marketplace, triggered when its contents are not fully loaded yet



			An error screen on the Marketplace, specifically the old Staff Picks tab



			The Marketplace during the 2023-4 New Years promotion, featuring Universal properties like How to Train Your Dragon



			The daily gifts screen during an event



			The removed Staff Picks tab


Assets



			The logo for the Minecraft Marketplace



			Minecoins



			Tokens



			Pixel art representing 320 Minecoins



			Pixel art representing 960 Minecoins, depicting a bowl



			Pixel art representing 1600 Minecoins, depicting a chest



			Pixel art representing 3200 Minecoins, featuring two minecarts



			Pixel art representing 8,000 Minecoins, featuring an ender chest



			Minecoin



			Token



			Minecoin (see here)



			Token (see here)


References

 Minecraft Marketplace

 "marketplace-sitemap-index.xml"     – Minecraft.net, May 14, 2026.

 "Minecraft"     – Impact.com.

 "Minecraft Affiliate Program"     – Minecraft.net.

 "This is super cool - the Halo Mashup pack and skins will be playable on ALL Bedrock Engine platforms; not just Xbox! 🙌🤝 #BetterTogether" (archived) – @Chupacaubrey  on X (formerly Twitter), September 18, 2017

 Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)

 "Beyond: Platformer"     by StarkTMA  – Minecraft Marketplace, April 28, 2023.

 "Minecraft Marketplace"     – Minecraft.net.

 "Discover the Summer Celebration"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, June 20, 2023.

 "Introducing add-ons"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, February 20, 2024.

Navigation