This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition on Xbox consoles. 

Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack

Skins

35

Price

US$2.99

Release date

BE: September 12, 2017
LCE: April 30, 2014

{
    "title": "Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "35",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:USD article, displayed as US$)2.99",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' September 12, 2017\n*'''LCE:''' April 30, 2014",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack is a skin pack containing 35 skins of characters from the Spider-Man superhero franchise by Marvel Entertainment and was available on Legacy Console Editions for Xbox consoles until December 21, 2015. Due to the Better Together Update, it was added in Bedrock Edition on September 12, 2017, although it is only available to players who owned it already when they migrated from Legacy Console Edition.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Bedrock Edition
4.2 Legacy Console Edition

5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Spider-Man

Peter Parker, once a meek teenager who was bitten by a radioactive spider, giving him the powers to become a superhero. Depicted in his traditional red and blue costume.

Spider-Man - Black Suit

Peter Parker in the "black suit," actually a symbiote, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #252.

Spider-Man - Future Foundation

Peter Parker in his uniform for the Future Foundation, a philanthropic organization founded by Mister Fantastic.

Spider-Man - Miles Morales

Miles Morales, a prominent Spider-Man and often successor to Peter Parker, depicted in his traditional red and black costume.

Spider-Man - 2099

Miguel O'Hara, a distant successor to the Spider-Men of the "Heroic Age," featured in the Marvel 2099 alternate universe imprint.

Possesses a cape, based off a web-themed cape he occasionally wears in the comics.

Spider-Man - Big Time

Peter Parker in his "Big Time" suit, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #650.

Superior Spider-Man

Otto Octavious, better known as Doctor Octopus, inhabitating the body of Peter Parker with the goal of usurping his accomplishments, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #698.

Aunt May

May Parker, the aunt and caretaker of Peter Parker.

Black Cat

Felicia Hardy, an antihero with the ability to alter probability fields, known for her on and off relationship with Peter.

Carnage

Cletus Kasady, a serial killer who came into contact with Carnage, an offspring of the Venom symbiote, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #344.

Chameleon

Dmitri Smerdyakov, the first ever supervillain to face Peter Parker as Spider-Man, appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #1.

Doctor Octopus

Doctor Otto Octavius, a scientist who created prosthetic arms similar to an octopus which corrupt his psyche, turning him into one of Peter Parker's greatest enemies.

Electro

Max Dillon, a supervillain known for his manipulation of electricity and being a founding member of the Sinister Six.

Green Goblin

Norman Osborn, archenemy of Peter Parker.

Gwen Stacy

A former love interest of Peter Parker, known for her historic death in The Night Gwen Stacy Died storyline.

Hammerhead

A mobster known for his temper and distinctive appearance, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #113.

J. Jonah Jameson

Editor of the Daily Bugle and frequent boss of Peter Parker, known for his disdain for Spider-Man and negative press of his adventures.

Kingpin

Wilson Fisk, a crime boss in the New York area, and the archenemy of Daredevil.

Kraven

Sergei Kravinoff, a hunter who takes interest in slaying Spider-Man and uses various traps to capture him, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #15.

Lizard

Scientist Curt Conners, who in an attempt to create a serum that can regenerate limbs was transformed into a reptilian monster.

Mary Jane Watson

Peter Parker's next door neighbor and eventual wife, the first person to discover his secret identity.

Menace

Lily Hollister, a woman who was exposed to the Goblin serum and took on a similar persona to the Green Goblin.

Mister Negative

A Chinese gangster with the powers of the Darkforce and Lightforce, creating two opposing personalities: the noble Martin Li, and Mister Negative.

Morbius

Doctor Michael Morbius, who became a "living vampire" after attempting to cure a blood disorder, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #101

Mysterio

Quentin Beck, a former special effects technician who became a supervillain, often attempting to deceive and manipulate Spider-Man.

Rhino

Aleksei Sytsevich, a Russian criminal who underwent a procedure that fused his body to a rhinoceros-like armor, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #41.

Sandman

Flint Marko, a shapeshifter with the ability to turn himself into sand, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #4.

Scorpion

Mac Gargan, a private investigator hired by J. Jonah Jameson to bring Spider-Man to justice. Following an untested procedure, Jameson unwittingly left him trapped in a scorpion-like costume, driving him mad and vengeful.

Shocker

Herman Schultz, a supervillain with the power to create shock waves, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #46.

Silver Sable

Silvija Sablinova, a bounty hunter and occasional ally of Peter Parker, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #265.

Venom

Reporter Eddie Brock, who worked under the Daily Bugle and ended up humiliated by Peter Parker. Desperate for vengeance, he came into contact with the same symbiote Peter had used, becoming the "lethal protector" Venom.

Vulture

Adrian Toomes, an inventor who created a flight suit and became a founding member of the Sinister Six.

Possesses a cape, in the form of his wings.

Iron Spider

An exoskeleton created for Peter Parker by Tony Stark, first appearing in The Amazing Spider-Man #529.

Scarlet Spider (Modern)

Kaine Parker, a clone of Peter Parker who first appeared as an antagonist during the Clone Saga storyline, before becoming the second Scarlet Spider in Scarlet Spider #2.

Scarlet Spider (Classic)

Ben Reilly, originally an exact clone of Peter Parker who appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #149, before returning and becoming a hero in his own right in Web of Spider-Man #118.

Quotes
“Look out! Here comes the Spider-Man Skin Pack! Featuring an assortment of 35 friends and foes straight from the saga of your favorite Wall-Crawler, this pack is sure to amaze. Catch it now!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos

History
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionSeptember 12, 2017
Added the Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack.
It is available to players who migrated to Bedrock Edition and previously owned it on Legacy Console Edition.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU15CU1
Added files for the Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack.April 30, 2014
The skin pack is now available.December 21, 2015
The skin pack gets delisted.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional artwork featuring the Lizard, Electro, Spider-Man, Green Goblin, and the Rhino.



			Banner of the skin pack.



			Key art of the skin pack in Xbox 360 Edition.


Promotional images



			Spider-Man 2099 and Venom cornering Electro and Mysterio on a rooftop.



			Ben Reilly between Doc Ock and Carnage while Venom looks at them.


References

 "Minecraft Marvel Spider-Man Skin Pack: Now Available"   (Archive)  by USN Saint  – playxbla.com, April 30, 2014.

 "New on Marketplace: Space, Sports and Dinosaurs"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, September 21, 2017.

Navigation