This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition on Xbox consoles. 

Marvel Avengers Skin Pack

Skins

35

Price

US$2.99

Release date

BE: September 12, 2017
LCE: December 23, 2013

{
    "title": "Marvel Avengers Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "35",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:USD article, displayed as US$)2.99",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' September 12, 2017\n*'''LCE:''' December 23, 2013",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Marvel Avengers Skin Pack is a skin pack containing 35 skins of characters from the Avengers superhero comic book series by Marvel Comics and was available on Legacy Console Editions for Xbox consoles until December 21, 2015. Due to the Better Together Update, it was added to Bedrock Edition on September 12, 2017, although it is only available to players who owned it already when they migrated from Legacy Console Edition.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Bedrock Edition
4.2 Legacy Console Edition

5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Captain America

Captain Steve Rogers, a super soldier enhanced by a serum during World War II, later awoken in the present day.

Hulk

Dr. Robert Bruce Banner, a scientist with dissociative identity disorder whose alter manifests into a large, green monster after being exposed to gamma radiation.

Thor

The Norse god, banished to Earth by his father Odin as a lesson of humility, ultimately becoming attached to humanity and choosing to stay to protect them.

Nick Fury

Director of S.H.I.E.L.D. and frequent ally of the Avengers.

The current iteration of Nick Fury debuted in the Ultimate Marvel alternate universe, with his likeness being based off actor Samuel L. Jackson, who would later portray him in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

A-Bomb

Rick Jones, frequent sidekick of several heroes but closest to the Hulk, briefly transformed into a similar form known as A-Bomb.

Abomination

Emil Blonsky, frequent adversary of the Hulk, known for appearing in the 2008 Incredible Hulk film.

AIM Agent

Nondescript member of the criminal organization Advanced Idea Mechanics, or A.I.M.

Ant-Man

Hank Pym, a scientist who discovered "pym particles," enabling him to shrink in size.

Arnim Zola

Frequent adversary of Captain America.

Black Panther

T'Challa, the king of the fictional country Wakanda, and latest to take up the mantle of Black Panther.

Captain America (Bucky Barnes)

Bucky Barnes, close friend and former sidekick of Steve Rogers, who briefly took up the Captain America name.

Falcon

Sam Wilson, close partner of Captain America equipped with special wings, enabling flight.

Giant-Man

Alternate persona of Hank Pym, designed to expand on the ability to grow.

Hydra Agent

Nondescript member of the Nazi organization Hydra.

Iron Man Mark 1

Tony Stark, a brilliant yet selfish scientist who learned humility after being taken prisoner during the Siancong War. To protect himself while held in a cave, he created the Iron Man armor.

Iron Man Mark 16

The sixteenth iteration of the Iron Man armor, codenamed Nightclub, created for stealth operations.

Depicted as black and gray, as opposed to red.

Iron Man Mark 41

The forty-first iteration of the Iron Man armor, codenamed Bones, created to be a lightweight alternative to other armors.

Iron Man Mark 42

The forty-second iteration of the Iron Man armor, featured prominently in the film Iron Man 3.

Iron Patriot

A unique armor intended to be a combination of Iron Man and Captain America, initially created for Spider-Man archenemy Norman Osborn, but later associated with Iron Man ally James "Rhodey" Rhodes.

Wasp

Janet Van Dyne, frequent partner and later wife of Hank Pym, possessing similar technology with added flight capabilities.

Kang

Frequent enemy of the Avengers and Fantastic Four.

Loki

Brother and archenemy of Thor, known for his manipulative behavior and horned helmet.

Moon Knight

Marc Spector, chosen by the Egyptian god Khonshu, known for possessing several distinct alters.

Red Hulk

Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross, frequent nemesis of the Hulk who eventually attained similar powers.

Red Skull

Johann Shmidt, frequent leader of Hydra and archenemy of Captain America.

Spider-Woman

Jessica Drew, an arachnid themed superhero unrelated to Spider-Man.

Taskmaster

Tony Masters, an incredibly dangerous supervillian with the power to mimic any fighting style.

Vision

An android, initially said to be created from the remains of the original Human Torch, known for his relationship with the Scarlet Witch.

Maria Hill

Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Agent Coulson

Original character created for the Marvel Cinematic Universe, portrayed by actor Clark Gregg.

Leader

Samuel Sterns, frequent enemy of the Hulk, known for his incredible intelligence.

Hercules

The Greek god Heracles, portrayed as a common ally of Thor.

Hawkeye

Clint Barton, formerly a supervillain of Iron Man before becoming a staple member of the Avengers, known for his skills in archery.

Black Widow

Natasha Romanova, former Russian spy who defected to the US, becoming a staple member of the Avengers.

Iron Man Mark 7

Seventh iteration of the Iron Man armor, used in the film The Avengers.

Quotes
“Step into Minecraft dressed as one of Earth’s Mightiest Heroes (or powerful villains) with this incredible Skin Pack, featuring core team members from Marvel’s Avengers including Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk, Thor, and many more iconic characters from the Marvel Universe.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description“Microsoft Studios, Mojang and Marvel are excited to announce a partnership to bring Marvel’s Avengers skins to the world of Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition! This Avengers Skin Pack is huge, with 35 characters including: Captain America, Iron Man, Hulk, Thor, Nick Fury, Black Widow, Hawkeye, Loki, Wasp, Falcon, Vision, Maria Hill, Agent Coulson and many more.

Bring the world’s greatest Super Heroes to your Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition world today!„ — playxbla.com
Videos

History
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionSeptember 12, 2017
Added the Marvel Avengers Skin Pack.
It is available to players who migrated to Bedrock Edition and previously owned it on Legacy Console Edition.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU13CU1
Added files for the Marvel Avengers Skin Pack.December 23, 2013
The skin pack is now available.December 21, 2015
The skin pack gets delisted.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional artwork of the Iron Man skins.






Promotional images



			The lineup of Avengers featured in the 2012 film.



			Several supervillains.



			A recreation of a famous scene in the 2012 Avengers film.



			Several skins associated with S.H.I.E.L.D.



			Iron Patriot and Falcon flying while Spider-Woman swings using a fishing rod.



			Armin Zola running through a burning city.



			Iron Man and Thor chasing Loki.



			An optical illusion of Giant Man.



			Contrasting heroes and villains.



			Several characters.


References

 "Marvel’s Avengers Skins for Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition are now available!"   (Archive)  by XBLA_Vulcan  – playxbla.com, December 23, 2013.

 "New on Marketplace: Space, Sports and Dinosaurs"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, September 21, 2017.

Navigation