This article is about the general tournaments.   For the Bedrock Edition event server, see MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party.



This page only covers MC Championship's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about MC Championship, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia, mcchampionship.com or the MCChampionship Fandom wiki.

MC Championship

Game

Minecraft: Java Edition

Founded

2019 (2019)

Organized by

Noxcrew, Smajor1995

Website

https://mcchampionship.com

{
    "title": "MC Championship",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: Java Edition article, displayed as Minecraft: Java Edition)''",
            "label": "Game"
        },
        {
            "field": "2019<span class=\"noprint\">; 7 years ago</span><span style=\"display:none\"> (<span class=\"bday dtstart published updated\">2019</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Noxcrew article, displayed as Noxcrew), (link to Smajor1995 article, displayed as Smajor1995)",
            "label": "Organized by"
        },
        {
            "field": "https://mcchampionship.com",
            "label": "Website"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MC Championship Logo.png"
    ]
}

MC Championship, commonly abbreviated as MCC, is a monthly fan-organised Minecraft tournament developed by the Marketplace partner Noxcrew and creator Scott Major. The tournament features 10 teams of 4 players, typically large content creators playing in minigames. It hosts an event usually once every month with breaks in between seasons. Noxcrew also hosts a Java Edition server known as MCC Island containing several games found in MC Championship.
On May 27, 2024, the 13th day of the 15 Days of Minecraft, it was announced that Mojang Studios would be officially hosting an MC Championship event, the Ender Cup, in the summer of 2024. Alongside this, a two-week long, in-game live event "inspired by both the history of MCC and 15 years of Minecraft" would occur in Bedrock Edition.

MC Championship x Minecraft
Contents

1 Teams
2 Gameplay
3 Types of events
4 Gallery
5 References
6 See also
7 Navigation

Teams
In the MC Championship, each tournament consisted of ten teams. Each team with four players.



			Red Rabbits



			Orange Ocelots



			Yellow Yaks



			Lime Llamas



			Green Geckos



			Cyan Coyotes



			Aqua Axolotls



			Blue Bats



			Purple Pandas



			Pink Parrots


Gameplay
The event starts off by placing players in the Decision Dome, the place the contestants will vote before each round. They will all be given eggs which they may throw into a central cylinder to hatch a chicken. The cylinder is divided into several segments, all correlating to a game. The segment with the most chickens in it is the chosen game. Players may receive power-ups throughout the event which they may use to direct the chickens into the segment of the game their team would like to play.
Once a game is chosen, the contestants will have to compete to earn the most coins for their team. Coins are typically earned by completing the objective, surviving and eliminating contestants from other teams. Coins are multiplied the longer the event goes on, so there is an incentive to play certain games that teams excel at later into the event to maximise the amount of coins obtained.
At the end after 8 games have been played, the first and second place teams by coins are placed into a grand finale game called Dodgebolt, inspired by the real life game of Dodgeball. Contestants are given a bow and arrow and must defeat the other team in a best-of-five to determine the event's winner.

List of MC Championship Games

Game

Type

Description

Ace Race

Movement

Contestants must race through a course with various power-ups and obstacles in multiple laps.

Battle Box

PvP

Teams face one another in a multi-round game where they must battle to fill the capture point with concrete blocks of the team's color.

Big Sales at Build Mart

Team

Teams must work together to recreate structures block by block while obtaining materials inside a custom-made map.

Bingo but Fast

Team

Teams are spawned onto a regular Minecraft world and must gather items or complete challenges from a bingo card.

Grid Runners

Team

Teams work together to complete rooms with practical puzzles as quickly as possible.

Hole in the Wall

Movement

Contestants must avoid being hit off a platform by bouncy walls.

Meltdown

PvP

A battle royale game where teams fight using bows that freezes enemies in place, while collecting coins from crates scattered across the map.

Parkour Tag

Movement

Teams face one another in a multi-round game of tag, where a member of each team is selected tagger, while the remaining team members must evade the opposing team's tagger for a set amount of time.

Parkour Warrior

Movement

Contestants complete as many parkour courses of various difficulties as possible within the time limit.

Railroad Rush

Team

Teams have contestants work together and create the longest railroad track using rails.

Rocket Spleef Rush

Movement

Contestants use an elytra to keep up with crumbling platforms while using a rocket launcher to eliminate others.

Sands of Time

Team

Teams are put into a procedurally-generated dungeon where they must collect coins inside. The teams' playtime is determined by a sand timer of their own, and they can extend that time using sands found in the dungeon.

Sky Battle

PvP

Teams collect items and fight on floating islands above the void with a shrinking border.

Survival Games

PvP

Teams are put into a battle royale and must collect items across the map while the border gradually shrinks toward the center of the map.

TGTTOSAWAF

Movement

Short for "To Get To The Other Side And Whack A Fan", contestants must make their way across an obstacle course while being able to hit other players into said obstacles to sabotage them.

Types of events
Aside from hosting regular events with regular player and game roster, MC Championship has held several special events. These tend to be for charities or special occasions.

List of MC Championship events

Event

When

Description

MC Championship

Monthly

Regular MC Championship, featuring a roster of well-known content creators.

MC Championship Pride

Annual (Pride Month)

A version of the event that raises money for LGBTQ+ charities. Often features pride-themed cosmetics and a more diverse roster of contestants. Often times, stretch goals are employed to encourage donations such as unlocking cosmetics or gimmicks for games.

MC Championship Twitch Rivals

Every TwitchCon event

A special live event at TwitchCon, since 2023, hosted at Twitch Rivals.

MCC Rising

Each Season

A seasonal event featuring a roster of smaller content creators not featured in the regular MC Championship.

MC Championship All-Stars

November 13, 2021 (2021-11-13)

A one-time event featuring only previous winners.

MC Championship Scuffed

April 1, 2023 (2023-04-01)

A one-time April Fools event where everything was intentionally made broken, unbalanced and unfinished.

Ender Cup

July 27, 2024 (2024-07-27)

A one-time special event, made in collaboration with Minecraft and Mojang Studios, in celebration of Minecraft's 15th anniversary.

Jingle Jam Championship

December 5, 2020 (2020-12-05)

A one-time invitational event, hosted for the Yogscast's yearly charity event, Jingle Jam.

MC Championship: Hermit Takeover

April 12, 2026

A one-time special event made in collaboration with Hermitcraft, hosted for the Hermitcraft Charity Weekend, which will be raising money for Gamers Outreach.

Gallery



			MCC x Minecraft artwork



			A Mojang promotion for the Colour the World event.


References

 "MC Championship"     – MC Championship.

 "MCC x Minecraft"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, May 27, 2024.

 "MCC x Minecraft: The Ender Cup is almost here"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, July 16, 2024.

 "MCC Event"     – MC Championship.

 "MC Championship - Ace Race (new mini-game) + updates!"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, July 17, 2020

 "MC Championship 34 - Update Video: Bingo but Fast is BACK! (Minecraft Event)"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, September 15, 2023

 "MC Championship - Parkour Warrior (Rules Video)"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, October 21, 2022

 "MC Championship - Railroad Rush Rule Video"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, May 3, 2024

 "MC Championship 20 - Update Video: MCC Returns & Rocket Spleef Rush! (March 2022)"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, March 25, 2022

 "MC Championship - Sands of Time (new mini-game)"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, May 14, 2020

 "MC Championship 9 - Update Video: Sky Battle (September 2020)"  – Noxcrew on YouTube, September 11, 2020

See also
Grid Runners, a downloadable world precursor to the minigame
Navigation