This article is about the Bedrock Edition event server.   For the special edition of MC Championship, see Ender Cup.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party

Developer(s)

Mojang Studios, Noxcrew

Edition(s)

Bedrock Edition

Pack author(s)

Mojang Studios, Noxcrew

Release date

July 22, 2024, 17:00 UTC

Closing date

August 4, 2024, 23:00 UTC

Article

"MCC x Minecraft: The Ender Cup is almost here"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios), (link to Noxcrew article, displayed as Noxcrew)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as ''Bedrock Edition'')",
            "label": "Edition(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios), (link to Noxcrew article, displayed as Noxcrew)",
            "label": "Pack author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 22, 2024, 17:00 UTC",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "August 4, 2024, 23:00 UTC",
            "label": "Closing date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/mcc-x-minecraft-the-ender-cup-almost-here \"MCC x Minecraft: The Ender Cup is almost here\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Key art
The MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party, also referred to as MC Championship x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party, the MC Championship Mini-games Event, or MCC Party, was an event server made in collaboration with Noxcrew.
The event consisted of 5 servers, including the Main Lobby and 4 mini-games: Ace Race, Grid Runners, Sands of Time and Meltdown. Players can earn coins by playing games which can then be spent in the server store, which includes mascot hats and hats that can be worn with Cosmetic Chest, toys that can be used for entertainment, and food that can be used to acquire status effects.
The event introduces 15 challenges, most of which themed after MCC teams. To complete the challenges, players are required to play the mini-games, explore the servers, and complete the mystery cave challenges, which are mystery tasks that can be completed by following hieroglyphic clues. For each challenge a player completes, they earn exclusive character creator items. After a player completes all 15 challenges, they can receive the MC Championship Cape.
The event was announced on July 16, 2024. It is a part of Minecraft's 15th anniversary celebration and the collaboration between Mojang Studios and MC Championship. The event ran from July 22, 2024, 17:00 UTC to August 4, 2024, 23:00 UTC.

Contents

1 Lobbies

1.1 Main Lobby
1.2 Ace Race
1.3 Grid Runners
1.4 Sands of Time
1.5 Meltdown

2 Games

2.1 Ace Race
2.2 Grid Runners
2.3 Sands of Time
2.4 Meltdown

3 Pads and gates
4 Stores

4.1 Mascot Hats
4.2 Hats
4.3 Toys
4.4 Food

5 Challenges

5.1 Mystery Cave Challenge
5.2 MC Championship Cape

6 Sounds
7 Videos
8 Trivia
9 Gallery

9.1 Promotional images
9.2 Screenshots

9.2.1 Hub
9.2.2 Ace Race
9.2.3 Grid Runners
9.2.4 Sands of Time
9.2.5 Meltdown

9.3 Character Creator items
9.4 Renders

9.4.1 NPCs
9.4.2 Blocks

10 See also
11 Notes
12 References
13 Navigation

Lobbies
Main Lobby
The house players spawn in.
Players will spawn into the map inside of a white, angular building on green and white carpets. Beside the player is an extra large cake under a bunting with the MCC crown, and left of that is an interactive button that says the name of the developers, Noxcrew. To the right are several posters promoting the Ender Cup. Outside of there the player will be greeted with a mock village, with the crown symbol built into the floor of the plaza, and Jens and Agnes on the opposite side from the spawn point.
Approaching the NPCs, they will introduce themselves and welcome players into the event, explaining the various things they can do, such as the minigames, Cave Mystery, and an option to summon collectible medals to lead the players to the Ace Race portal. From there the player can explore several small buildings within the village before heading off to other areas. To the left is a white house with a bridge attached to the spawn point, with a small azalea garden outside. Inside the house is a fireplace made of cobblestone stairs, several red presents, two bookshelves, a slice of cake, and a Lime Llama plush. To the right the player can enter the Sands of Time section of the lobby, however while crossing the small creek they might notice vines on the back of the house. Climbing these will enable the player to walk on the roof, and from there cross over onto the bridge and into a hidden room with a checkerboard floor and a pile of twenty coins.
To the right of the spawn point is another house, with a similar garden of rose bushes and a recycling bin. Inside will be a similar but slightly larger interior, with dark oak stairs for a couch, a larger fireplace with an unlit campfire, and a much bigger, uneaten cake. The exterior plaza is split into four paths, leading to each of the minigames' respective lobbies. The closest from the right house will be Ace Race, which is reached by crossing a large rainbow bridge into a floating castle. At the top, the player can either enter a Nether portal to the proper Ace Race lobby or explore around, discovering two secret areas. To the left, the player can make a drop and discover a jump boost pad; venturing down they will find another below, revealing a secret entrance on a giant flower build. To the right, players can find another jump pad, this time used for platforming upwards until the player can stop at a balcony level with a visible Blue Bat plush, before reaching another behind the sign for the minigame with Pink Parrot and Aqua Axoltol plushes.
Below the rainbow bridge, the player can find many other structures and visual gags. Close to the bridge is a tower flooded with water, with a soul sand elevator launching the player up to an elytra. Underneath the bridge itself are several giant flowers, each with different pads on them, and huge mushrooms with shroomlights. Beneath the castle is a small house, with a farm of pumpkins, a picnic between Yellow Yak, Purple Panda, and Lime Llama plushes, and a quaint interior with Orange Ocelot and Green Gecko plushies. There is what appears to be a bed made out of blocks, outlined with trapdoors. On the opposite side of the bridge is a lake, with a pier adorned with yellow and green flags, a usable bench, lily pads, an artificial boat ridden by Pink Parrot and Yellow Yak plushes, and a large build of a yellow rubber duck.

Village between Ace Race and Sands of Time.
Between Ace Race and Sands of Time is another village. Above the village is a house on a cloud, but most apparent is a large restaurant, adorned with balloons of a chicken, a baby zombie, and the number 15 on an outer wall. The building is a lime green color, with visible awnings and a statue of a chicken on metal support beams. Both inside and out, there are several tables, with cakes and muffins littering them. Of note is the Food vendor NPC, who will give the player various foodstuff, as well as a second, non-interactable fry cook NPC behind them. Also inside is a small bathroom area, with a Purple Panda plush.
Outside Grid Runners is an obstacle course of sorts, with many small gimmicks for players to interact with. Immediately to the left of the entrance is a small parkour challenge where the player must cross through rings lined with stained glass above a pool of water. To the right is a small beach, with a stone rock, orange and white umbrellas, and the Pink Parrot plush positioned near yellow carpets and a tray of muffins. Before the portal itself will be what appears to be a volleyball course, with sand installed, a chainlink net, and two audiences made using "grimace blocks" with various green faces. The Grid Runners portal will again be a Nether portal, telegraphed with large arrows and the logo above.
Left of the Grid Runners section are two more buildings, the first being a lighthouse-like structure with a difficult parkour challenge involving platforming across trapdoors upwards to a reward[needs testing]. The second, larger building is a green and red tent filled with presents and plushes. More noteworthy is a large copper tube, marked with a large arrow and path of red carpet. Jumping in, the player will fall onto slime blocks, revealing a message from Jens who explains the player has found the Trophy Room. The room is littered with ice blocks, a thermostat build labeling the temperature at -18°, with a large, shut door behind the player. In the center is a large cake adorned with candles correlating to each of the available challenges; used will give players update on their records. Below is a question mark NPC, which when interacted with will explain the purpose of the room. To the back of the room is an exit in the form of another soul sand elevator, but to the right of that is a jump pad that leads the player to a hidden camera construct.
Right of Grid Runners is an expansive mountain, the peak of which can be reached using an elevator. However, below it is an equally expansive cave area, noticeable through a large sign of a shopping cart. Entering it, the player will find many amethyst buds, pointed stone, a lush cave environment, and a purple carpet over blocks of amethyst. At the end of that road is the Toy store, located inside a stone brick structure with visible braziers and blocks of netherite. At the top of the mountain, players will be propelled into a cherry grove, adorned with a stairway and posters of the Ender Cup. Venturing right, players can find more plushes eating cake near benches, but more importantly a cave area. Inside, the player will find the Puzzle Helper NPC, who gives hints on the Mystery of the Cave. Exiting the cave, the player will have several more options for elytra, but can also venture up to the peak of the mountain if desired. Along the way they will find many presents hidden behind the snow, a cabin housing two cake slices and a pile of 20 coins, and then finally the Pink Parrot plush at the peak, with the Blue Bat not far away.

Sands of Time Entrance.
The Sands of Time entrance is set inside of a large desert, with many sandstone pillars, packed mud paths, dripstone rocks, and a large hourglass structure. The portal is housed inside of a temple, primarily made of sandstone but with many gold, diamond, and netherite blocks present. The door itself is marked with Nether portal symbols, also used in Sands of Time, as well as decorated pots. Nearby the area is a stairway that leads to a picnic between a Lime Llama plush and a Cyan Coyote. An Orange Ocelot plush will also be present below, sitting alone on sandstone. Continuing from there, players will find another advertisement for the Ender Cup, this time in the form of an NPC on an End themed pyramid. Beside that is a very difficult parkour challenge involving balancing jumps over stained glass, leading into a cave guarded by an Aqua Axolotl where the player is rewarded with a pile of 30 coins[needs testing]. Also present here are the Hat and Mascot Hat stores, housed on a boardwalk adorned with a giant top hat, sandwiched around an area in the back with more cakes, including one with a crown.
Traveling from there, the player can enter Meltdown's area through a massive fossil into a badlands biome. Instead of a traditional path, players will be led down a modern road into a mechanical building erupting with magma blocks, with street lamps and cacti present. Before it is a smooth basalt geyser tied to a daily challenge, and next to that is a stage with pressure plates, standing them plays a song.

Ace Race
Ace Race lobby.
Ace Race's lobby is a small forest on various stable clouds. Players spawn in a marketplace with three tents. One is large and red, with yellow streamers, lanterns, presents, and benches, with a crowned cake in the center. Another is a small, magenta plush shop, holding various plushes, opposite to it is Seapeekay. Talking to him will teleport players to the starting line, and give a tutorial on the minigame. Behind him are several crates, rose bushes, and a large quartz gazebo with benches. Inside, Green Gecko and Lime Llama will be eating another cake beside a pot with flowering azalea leaves. Outside, players can see a large yellow hot air balloon.
Continuing from there, players can find three rainbow bridges. One is directly in front of the exit portal, and leads to the minigame; unique to this game players can walk directly into the race without a loading screen, and leave just as easily. The other is beside a hedge near the gazebo, with a diagonal shape. It leads into a large forest, with podzol throughout and many giant mushrooms. In the center is an old growth tree, partly hollowed out with a spiral staircase inside. At the top will be a mini-treehouse, filled with presents, Blue Bat and Yellow Yak plushes, soul lanterns, and a pile of twenty coins.

The windmill area in Ace Race's lobby.
The third rainbow bridge is to the left of the portal, with another plush shop featuring Orange Ocelot and red carpet nearby, marked with MCC banners and a launch pad. Crossing this bridge leads to a windmill structure in a sunflower plains, with a picnic between various plushes facing the player as they enter. To the right is a well, leading into a hidden pond area with an Aqua Axolotl plush, cornflowers, tall grass, a lone candle, and a pile of twenty coins. Players can return to the surface through a nearby jump pad on a cloud, grasping several oxeye daisies, or alternatively jump across many smaller clouds back to the entrance.
In the windmill, players can find a small cornflower farm, as well as a computer chair and many chiseled bookshelves. Another pile of 20 coins will be behind them. Partly hidden is a ladder, leading to a room filled with presents and a single crate. Players can then reach out and go on the roof and blades of the windmill, however nothing is there to obtain.

Grid Runners
Grid Runners lobby.
The lobby of Grid Runners is a large, futuristic stadium with an extensive strip of an environment. Players will spawn in the very front of the map, with a window looking over the minigame's arena, two large tubes in the ceiling, and banners for the 15th anniversary. Close to the window is Smajor, who will welcome players into the course, enter players into the queue, and give the tutorial. Alternatively, players can press a game controller NPC to enter the queue. To the left and right of the room are two doors, which lead to extensive locations outside the minigame for players to explore.
To the left. marked by a stray cardboard box, is a flight of stairs adorned with quartz pillars, pointed stone, Ender Cup posters, green buntings, and a decorated pot. At the end, players will be able to gaze into the starting area for Grid Runners. Lower than that is another floor, where players can find a build of a seemingly upset person on the ground, and a Green Gecko plush gazing at a leaking oxidized copper pipe. Back on the surface, players will pass by a bench, trash can, and finally a split in stairways.
At the bottom, players will find another Green Gecko plush, this time in an extensive lake with lily pads, reeds made of stained glass, large expanses of shade, azaleas, moss carpets, and plentiful andesite. As they swim across, players might notice several things above them, which can be found by traveling back to the first staircase. On the above floor, however, players can get a better look at these structures and eye two plushes, Aqua Axolotl and Green Gecko, seemingly placed to watch players.
Back at the front staircase, players will find wooden platforms below a Pink Parrot which can give them the leverage to jump onto several plateau platforms, passing an orange bodied person totem. After several jumps, players will reach a shattered road with a mock car being driven by a Yellow Yak, which will eventually lead to stone platforms suspended by oak fences with Blue Bats flying above, and at the end of those a very large collection of ladders. After climbing those, players will frolic through a small patch of grass, before having to jump over two log beams, ultimately reaching an area lined with copper blocks and a checkerboard stripe, in front of a cabin housing a torch and 20 coins.
If the player doesn't wish to engage with that section, they can also reach the cabin by walking all the way from the bottom floor and climbing a staircase.
Also at the end of the mini-course is a quartz stair bridge, which leads into a large red building adorned with the crown crest watching sessions of Grid Runners. Players entering here will arrive on the third floor, and encounter an audience of eleven totems with varying reactions, followed by an indoor stage with two sets of people, one with one of a kind star eyes. Between each room is a flight of stairs with open windows where players can continue to follow games; unique to the one between the stage room and a repeat bleacher room is an orange figure, who has seemingly tripped on a stair.
On the second floor is a third bleacher room, though now with a different, more quartz centric design with dark oak stair tables holding red cups. It is here there are what appear to be two figures speaking or arguing, and two separate figures holding a plate of cake. If the player desires, they can enter or exit the building from this room. To the right isn't a viewing area, but instead a display of a large build of a red present, with smaller ones below and multicolored concrete platforms suspended by chains. The next room is similar to the last, but now with a slouched over blue totem person overeating cake, beside a crowned cake block.
At the end of the second floor is an open door, which leads into another platforming challenge. Players must jump on and position themselves onto trapdoors suspended by chains attached to a glass ceiling. Of note are wither skulls used as platforms, and the ultimate reward being a pile of coins​[more information needed] on a gold block platform. If players fall, they will plummet into a pool of water. Advancing down to the bottom floor, players can access an alternate route to the platforming section. The first room of note is a hallway, with what appear to be two sets of parents and kids, yellow and purple. The yellow parent is making an "oof" face, while the child is agitated and holding a Purple Panda plush. The purple parent is using a happy face, while the child is making a different happy grimace with buck teeth. They have three Purple Pandas, an Orange Ocelot, and a Yellow Yak, implying the purple child is jealous of them.
Continuing forward the player will briefly return to the present room, before discovering steps into a basement of sorts, where there are two more people block configurations. One, purple, is raising an eyebrow, while the other, cyan, is holding a present, presumably gifting or proposing. On the right side of the building is a third platforming challenge, however this time not accessible from the audience building. Backtracking to the other entrance, players will pass a blue shirted figure watching the game alone in front of the third challenge, before reaching the challenge from its back. In this one, players will have to platform across iron bars and zombie heads suspended by spruce logs and planks, without any apparent reward. If desired, players can then return to the front of the lobby from here, encountering a similar staircase but with more inorganic scenery, save for bamboo and a Purple Panda, and three hidden Pink Parrots above.
At the very end of both paths is an outdoor bleacher area, with fewer people but more giant presents, and a build of a large, golden trophy. Players participating in the minigame will reach here upon completion, and can return to the front through two tubes, which can be seen spread throughout the map.

Sands of Time
Sands of Time lobby.
Sands of Time's lobby is set in what appears to be a large sinkhole, filled with lush plants and ruins. Players spawn in view of HBomb94, who is standing under a metal tent, the game controller NPC not too far. Surrounding them both are several rows of sandstone pillars, leading up to a statue of an hourglass, similar to in the main lobby but made of chiseled sandstone. Viewable through several grates around the statue are active games of Sands of Time. A similar statue can be seen engraved above the exit portal.
Opposing the entrance are paths of deepslate nearby soul sand elevators, while the left side contains an immediate road up to a higher level, lined with torches. Not far above, players can find an andesite statue in the shape of a villager head, with gold eyes and a netherite block below. Climbing up sand blocks to the left of the totem leads to a broken bridge made of spruce slabs, spread across several of the aforementioned pillars. Platforming across this leads to the opposite side of the upper layer, with another diamond eyed statue featuring noticeable vines, and what appears to be a wagon.
Returning to the path and passing the elevator, players find another bridge, this one more abstract and made of multicolored concrete. Below it is the top of the elevator shaft. Going past that, players can find a person block surrounded by gold blocks, diamond blocks, a brazier, and an Orange Ocelot. After that is a stream emitting from an unreachable area, represented by a black concrete void, followed by a second elevator close to several crates. Climbing up those crates will allow the player to jump across many, reddish pillars, which can then be used to climb a tree before arriving at a hidden cabin. Inside are more crates, a metal barrel, a Pink Parrot, an Ender Cup poster, and a pile of 20 coins.
Continuing the path will briefly feature an L-shaped bridge covered in boxes and Cyan Coyote, before passing the totem and the end of the colored bridge. Directly behind that is a cave, filled with plants, moss, and plushes facing a crevice. Leaping or swimming down the hole will return the player to the bottom of the map, inside a deepslate cave. Nearby is a fenced tent, where players can peer into another area of Sands of Time, specifically the hiding spot of the Netherite chest.
Advancing back to the entrance, players can go behind the hourglass fixture, and find more holes into gameplay beside the second elevator. Players can then go into another cave, discovering a Green Gecko gazing into gameplay through several grates. Behind the elevator is another statue of a head, and near that are two tents with plushies sitting beside a crowned cake another window into the minigame, featuring what appears to be a shrine to a plant. Walking beyond that will lead players behind the first elevator, and discover a door similar to one found in Grid Runners. Further past that is an open room where many Yellow Yaks are watching an Orange Ocelot raise a Red Rabbit above a fire, seemingly intending to sacrifice it.

Meltdown
Meltdown lobby.
Meltdown's lobby is a large industrial facility, set in a badlands biome. Players spawn on carpets outside the exit portal lined with flags, with a parking lot to the left containing two cars, "driven" by Yellow Yak and Blue Bat plushes. Between those is a small building, with a fan, office chair, cardboard boxes, and a siren. To the right are two large palm trees, with another office chair and crate in-between them for uncertain reasons. Traveling further, players will find metal scaffolding up close to several windows.

The inside of the building in Meltdown's lobby.
The starting path is short, leading to an NPC of hannahxxrose standing on a stage, and another game controller NPC. Behind the controller is what appears to be a cyan logo​[more information needed] holding Aqua Axolotl and Cyan Coyote plushes, and behind that is a large window into an inside room. Players can enter the building from a door lined with glass, and are greeted with a massive complex. The nearest room to the entrance is a miniaturized cake store, filled with smooth quartz stair tables, three slices of cake, four recycling bins, many Ender Cup posters, and what appear to be vending machines. Inside the kitchen are shelves again made of smooth quartz, several more cake slices, a larger cake, smooth stone stair tables, and what appears to be a refrigerator.
The closest room to the eatery is a meeting room, with a misdrawn creeper face on the wall, and several plushes resting on a table below modern light fixtures. At the left end of the room is a giant television screen or blackboard, with the MCC crown on it. From there is a conveyer belt, placing Red Rabbits into presents, with a pile of coins visible at the end, despite not being immediately reachable. To access the coins, players must go up to a second floor, and duck into a closet where a hole behind a crate will lead into the assembly line, revealing the pile to be worth 20 coins.
Continuing on the second floor, players can watch games of Meltdown from behind blue glass surrounding the closet, which briefly lock upon the end of a game. Left of the glass is another eating area, this time only two tables with cyan umbrellas on top. At this point players will return to the entrance, identifiable not just by the entrance but by an unusable elevator marked with the crown symbol, and another flight of stairs. At the top lies a third floor, where players can find the other side of the elevator shaft, opened. Jumping down they can enter the elevator, claim 20 coins and exit through pressure plates opening the doors.
Further on the third floor is a platforming challenge, with players leaping across the umbrella, several light fixtures, and a hedge before claiming a pile of 30 coins on a large, cyan container of pink fluids, being emptied into a cauldron. Around the corner of this is a container with lava, which is also facing more gameplay windows on the third floor. Not far from there are multiple iron trapdoor platforms, which can be used to both reach the coins and lead to a new area, through a tube. Inside is a storage center, with cardboard boxes, shelves, and shipping containers. Climbing those will reveal a ladder, ultimately revealing a break area on the roof of the complex. There floor is lined with grass, cake, a beach chair and umbrella, azalea, and two tables with large cakes.

Plushes participating in what appears to be a ritual.
If players jump across hedges and over the umbrella they can find another area over the fencing, identifiable by metal crates. There players can walk across air vents, and stumble upon what appears to be plushes participating in a ritual. Climbing across vents and air conditioner, players can continue to a third area, containing a plane of diamond blocks and bridge using redstone torches. Climbing up the diamonds, players can jump onto a large pipe and onto a catwalk; if they miss the jump they can simply take a slightly longer stairway route outside the fences. The final area on top of the building is a helicopter pad, with an Orange Ocelot plush placed in front of a distant build of a quadcopter.

Games
The server includes four games inspired by games from MC Championship.

Ace Race
“Race to the finish using the speed and jump boost pads!„
Ace Race consists of a single-lap race which includes mechanics such as jump boost pads, speed boost pads, launch pads, and elytra gates. Shortcuts are scattered across the track.

Beginning section of Ace Race.
The race begins once the player crosses under a gate in the lobby, marked with a lime green arrow with two speed boost pads visible. The path immediately splits, with one way being an overgrown red tulip above a jump boost pad, the other being a cloudy cave with visible hanging roots and a speed pad. The paths partly converge at an andesite rock before a soul soil pit, with stone blocks for the players to jump over.
From there the paths will again split, though to a more narrow degree. To the right is a surface level lush cave mine with stone stalactites, cobblestone, rails, and lanterns. To the left are several large andesite rocks covered in moss carpets, that can be reached with a launch pad and intersect with the tail of a block built dragon. Approaching the dragon from the mineshaft path will grant the player a shortcut via jump boost pad, while the bottom road leads to dirt paths and speed boost pads. At the top of both will be the first elytra, which can be used to glide through more overgrown flower structures.

Middle section of Ace Race.
At the end of the glide the player will cross through a castle made of cherry colored bricks, inside a pond with gravel and fallen trees. To the right is a jump pad that will let players race on top of the wall, while below they will need to cross two logs and up a cloud hill. More fantastical builds will become visible from here, such as hot air balloons, with the paths becoming much more chaotic and undefinable. Several of all pads will appear, as will slime blocks, before the paths again converge into a larger castle. Grabbing another elytra, players will leave the structure and glide into a forest, with giant mushrooms and oak-like trees.
To the right of the forest entrance is a jump boost pad that leads to a mossy cliff, where the player can take a risky jump. On the left the player can use a jump boost pad to leap onto a giant tree stump onto a launch pad into a hollowed log over more soul soil, leading to another pit similar to the first. Players can then either manually climb up a steep hill or jump to the top from a pad onto a speed boost. Another wide path with many pads follow, with a visible giant bee nest, bee, and more slime blocks. After more platforming, there will be another elytra segment, now set in a mycelium filled, basalt delta-like area shrouded by a giant rain cloud.

Final section of Ace Race.
Gliding by basalt spikes and jack o' lanterns, the player will have to dodge water and dead trees, ultimately arriving at a gate marked with the MCC crown symbol and soul fire. Now the race will be surrounded with gold blocks and chiseled quartz, with another jump pad helping the player onto a wall. Passing by many blue decorated pots, the player will ultimately reach a final wall colored like a rainbow, before making a drop right back to the start of the track.

Minimum Time

Medalist

Coins Earned

0:00

Netherite

400

1:10

Diamond

300

1:20

200

1:30

Gold

180

1:45

160

2:00

Iron

140

2:15

Copper

100

Grid Runners
Grid Runners is a game first featured during MINECON Earth 2018 which consists of a puzzle race. In this version, a group of four players must enter and complete 4 rooms featuring different challenges: "Defeat the Beasts", "Copy the Painting", "Bake a Cake", and "Sprint". Each room lasts for one minute. When the one minute is over, a door to the next room is open.

Defeat the Beasts
Players in the "Defeat the Beasts" section of the game seen from the top.
“Defeat as many monsters as you can before the timer ends!„
Players are given an iron sword to fight waves of enemies. Enemy waves are randomly chosen and can also be chosen back-to-back. The waves that can be chosen are: one husk and multiple zombies, one stray and multiple skeletons, one stray and multiple bogged, one witch and multiple pillagers, multiple small slimes, one blaze and multiple small magma cubes, and one breeze and multiple bogged. Players are awarded some​[more information needed] or 10 coins when they kill an enemy or defeat a wave of enemies.

Copy the Painting
Players in the "Copy the Painting" section of the game seen from the top.
“Use the colored paint pots and copy the paintings!„
Players are given a paintbrush. In the room, there are two canvases on the left and right, and the players need to copy the painting shown by using their paintbrush to dip it into buckets of paint, namely black, brown, yellow, red, green, blue, purple, and white. Then they can shoot the paint onto the canvases to complete a painting. The aim does not need to be precise. The players are awarded 3 coins when correctly filling a color-block and 10 coins when a painting is copied. The paint balls have a certain​[more information needed] radius. If a paint ball falls to the ground, it leaves a mark.

Bake a Cake
Players in the "Bake a Cake" section of the game seen from the top.
“Gather ingredients for cake and deposit them at the center!„
The players are given wheat crops that regrow quickly without being replanted, sugar canes that regrow quickly and drops sugar when broken, chicken that lay eggs quickly, and three cows and a chest full of buckets. The players need to collect the ingredients (eggs, sugar, wheat, milk) and submit them by using them at the cake baker at the center. The cake baker can only contain 48 of one kind of ingredient at a time.​[more information needed] The players are awarded 10 coins when a cake is baked.

Sprint
“Get to the finish line!„
Players need to sprint and jump over multiple platforms to the finish line.
This course looks like the kelp sprint tile in Grid runners pro.

Sands of Time
“Find as many coins as you can before the time runs out! Collect sand for extra time!„
Sands of Time is a dungeon filled of traps, obstacles, and mobs in which players must collect as much gold as they can before time runs out. Players can increase the remaining time by collecting sand scattered through the dungeon.
When the player enters the dungeon, the timer is up to 2 minutes and the player is given a stone sword a leather tunic, a pair of leather pants, and a pair of leather boots. Throughout the dungeon, the player may find an iron chestplate, a pair of iron leggings and a pair of iron boots as upgrades, as well as sand. Each sand collected adds 10 seconds to the timer.
The player may collect gold by collecting coin piles scattered on the ground (either piles of 5, 20 or 30 coins) and unlocking chests. There are iron, gold, diamond and netherite chests, each providing 50, 100, 200, and 400 coins respectively. Each type of chest requires a corresponding key to be opened. The player can also collect gold by defeating mobs: zombies and spiders drop 1 coin upon death; husks, pillagers, and skeletons drop 2 coins; and evokers drop 3 coins.
There is a total of 70 sand blocks, 5 iron chests, 2 gold chests, 1 diamond chest and 1 netherite chest.

Meltdown
“Survive in each room before it melts down! Freeze enemies with your bow, then punch them!„
One of the rooms where Meltdown takes place.
Meltdown is a PVE game where players must survive through seven rooms filled with monster spawners.
The players are given a freezing bow with Infinity whose arrows can freeze monsters. Once a mob is frozen, the player has 10 seconds to hit it to kill it before the ice melts and the mob is free. They receive 3 coins by doing so. They can also collect coins from coin piles (either 5 or 10 coins) scattered across each room.
Players spend 1:45 minutes in rooms (with the exception of the spawning room, the first room and last room in which players spend 0:20, 1:30 and 1:50 minutes respectively). 30 seconds before the time runs out, the door leading to the next room opens. The current room starts to melts, and players have 15 seconds to make it to the next room. After these 15 seconds, the current room goes into critical phase and players start losing 1HP every two seconds.
As for the spawning room, the meltdown phase starts as soon as the game begins and players have 10 seconds to make it to the first room before the spawning room goes into critical phase.
The blazes found here behave differently. They do not shoot fireballs and only attack with melee. They can also melt the ice surrounding other mobs on contact and will actively pathfind towards frozen mobs to unfreeze them. However, they can still be frozen themselves.
Each room has different sets of mobs:

Mobs

Room 1

Room 2

Room 3

Room 4

Room 5

Room 6

Room 7

Zombie

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Spider

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Skeleton

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Blaze

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Vindicator

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Pads and gates
Around the main lobby and Ace Race, players can use pads to gain an effect or get launched while elytra gates give elytra.

Mechanics

Image

Name

Function

Speed boost pad

Grants Speed for a short duration to players that walk over it.

Jump boost pad

Grants Jump Boost to players that walk over it. The duration is so short that only one jump affected by Jump Boost can be performed before the effect ends.
While racing in Ace Race specifically, pointing the crosshair at it also has the same effects.

Launch pad

Launches players that walk over it in the direction they are facing.

Elytra gate

Equips an elytra on players that walk through it or points their crosshair at it. Walking on any block outside of the elytra gate unequips the player's elytra.

Stores
In the main lobby, there are four stores that sell cosmetics for coins. The mascot hat and the hat shops are located in the corner of the Main Lobby between the Meltdown and Sands of Time areas, the toy store is located between the Meltdown and Grid Runners areas, and the food store is located between the Ace Race and Sands of Time areas. Outside of every store are recycling bins, which when used will refund an item.

The hat two stores between Meltdown and Sands of Time.
Mascot Hats

Image

Name

Cost

Effect

Red Rabbits Beanie

250

See challenge

Orange Ocelots Beanie

250

See challenge

Yellow Yaks Beanie

250

See challenge

Lime Llamas Beanie

250

See challenge

Green Geckos Beanie

250

See challenge

Cyan Coyotes Beanie

250

See challenge

Aqua Axolotls Beanie

250

See challenge

Blue Bats Beanie

250

See challenge

Purple Pandas Beanie

250

See challenge

Pink Parrots Beanie

250

See challenge

Hats

Image

Name

Cost

Party Hat

300

Propeller Hat

300

Cake Crown

300

Birthday Present Hat

300

Jester Hat

300

Chicken Jockey Hat

300

Boombox Hat

300

Toys
The toy store between Grid Runners and Meltdown.

Image

Name

Cost

Effect

Foam Finger

60

Cosmetic. When held in hand, the player's hand is shaped as a giant finger.

Balloon Animal

60

When used, sets off a balloon animal which flies for a few seconds.

Giant Bubble Blower

60

When used, three bubbles appear and then breaks in a few seconds.

Silly Horn

100

When used, horn sound is played and music note particles appears.

Party Popper

40

When used, horn sound is played and confetti particles appear.
Can be used to complete the Day 2 Mystery Cave Challenge.

Confetti Tag

40

When used on a player, confetti particles appear around them. If the player moves, particles do not move with them.

Box of Pizza

80

When used on a player, a pizza slice appears in the player's inventory. Can be used eight times.

Birthday Fireworks

40

When used, a rocket slowly ascends and firework particles appears. The center of the firework reads the number 15, demonstrating 15 years of Minecraft.
Can be used to complete the Day 6 Mystery Cave Challenge.

Gifting Box

100

When used on a player, a gift box are added to their inventory. Note that the player who is given a "gifting box" receives a "gift box".
Can be used to complete the Lime Llamas Challenge.

Disco Ball

60

When used, a disco ball with propellers attached to it floats in the air. It emits light beams of various color and plays music. It disappears in a few seconds.
Can be used to complete the Day 4 Mystery Cave Challenge.

Beach Ball

60

When used, spawns a cubic beach "ball" which can be interacted with by either attacking or pushing it.

Helium Balloon

60

When used, spawns a balloon that ascends into the sky and then shrinks and vanishes in a few seconds. Plays hissing sound effect of the balloon deflating.

Food
The food store between Sands of Time and Ace Race.

Image

Name

Cost

Effect

Fizzy Soda

10

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed.

Cotton Candy

10

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Jump Boost.

Popcorn

10

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Jump Boost.

Tasty Burger

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed and Jump Boost.

Tasty Hot Dog

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed and Jump Boost.

Cupcake

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Slow Falling.

Cake Slice

20

When consumed, gives player 3 seconds of Levitation and 10 seconds of Slow Falling.
Can be used to complete the Day 5 Mystery Cave Challenge

Bowl of Chips

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed.

Cookie

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Jump Boost.

Healthy Wrap

20

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed, Jump Boost and Slow Falling.

Pizza Slice

N/A

When consumed, gives player 10 seconds of Speed.

Challenges
Players can complete challenges to earn exclusive character creator items. 14 of them can be obtainable in any order, except for the Mystery Cave Challenge.

Challenge

Description

Reward

Reward image

Locked

Unlocked

 Red Rabbits Challenge

While wearing the Red Rabbits Beanie, run over a Launch Pad 50 times while completing the Ace Race mini-game.

Red Rabbits Head Character Creator Item

 Orange Ocelots Challenge

While wearing the Orange Ocelots Beanie, run over 100 Speed Boosts while completing the Ace Race mini-game.

Orange Ocelots Head Character Creator Item

 Yellow Yaks Challenge

While wearing the Yellow Yaks Beanie, defeat 350 frozen enemies in the Meltdown mini-game.

Yellow Yaks Head Character Creator Item

 Lime Llamas Challenge

While wearing the Lime Llamas Beanie, give out 10 Gifting Boxes. You can purchase Gifting Boxes from the Toy Vendor in the main lobby.

Lime Llamas Head Character Creator Item

 Green Geckos Challenge

While wearing the Green Geckos Beanie, paint 200 blocks in the “Copy the painting” challenge from the Grid Runners mini-game.

Green Geckos Head Character Creator Item

 Cyan Coyotes Challenge

While wearing the Cyan Coyotes Beanie, Collect 75 Coin Piles from the Sands of Time or Meltdown mini-game. [sic]

Cyan Coyotes Head Character Creator Item

 Aqua Axolotls Challenge

While wearing the Aqua Axolotls Beanie, find the Lost Pearl. It's hidden in a pool of water...
The Lost Pearl is located at the "Sprint" section of Grid Runner. It is at the left of the second-nearest pool to the entrance. It is a bubble with a spinning cube inside of it. You can collect it by hitting it.

Aqua Axolotls Head Character Creator Item

 Blue Bats Challenge

While wearing the Blue Bats Beanie, collect 100 sand from the Sands of Time mini-game.

Blue Bats Head Character Creator Item

 Purple Pandas Challenge

While wearing the Purple Pandas Beanie, place 200 ingredients in the "Bake the Cake" challenge from the Grid Runners mini-game.

Purple Pandas Head Character Creator Item

 Pink Parrots Challenge

While wearing the Pink Parrots Beanie, run through the Elytra Gates while completing the Ace Race mini-game 25 times.

Pink Parrots Head Character Creator Item

 Grid Runners Challenge

Complete a Grid Runners mini game!

"Ride to Victory" Emote

 Sands of Time Challenge

Enter the Sands of Time mini-game, survive for 2 minutes, then successfully escape!

"Victory Cartwheel" Emote

 Meltdown Challenge

Survive until the 3rd room in the Meltdown mini-game [sic]

"Flying Chicken" Emote

 Ace Race Challenge

Complete a course of the Ace Race mini-game!

"Kiss the Crowd" Emote

 Mystery Cave Challenge

Complete all 7 of the painted puzzle challenges in the mysterious cave.

MCC Crown Character Creator Item

Mystery Cave Challenge
During the first week of the event, every day at 5 PM UTC, a new hieroglyph appears in the mystery cave located above the toy shop. Next to the hieroglyphs is the Puzzle Helper, a NPC describing them. On July 29, hints were given by the puzzle helper to help players deciphering each hieroglyph.
Players can complete these challenges at any time during the event after they appear in the mystery cave.

Day

Hieroglyph

Puzzle Helper dialogue

In-game hints

Solution

Image

Day 1

“That first one seems like a waving hand, but I can't be sure...I need to reveal them all before I get any ideas.„ — Puzzle Helper

A waving hand over the symbol of a crown...
Find a large crown on a red background and wave while standing on it!

The player must use the "Waving" emote while being in the middle of the lobby.

Day 2

“I've just revealed a face and a party popper.I'm not yet sure what they mean though...„ — Puzzle Helper

A party popper in front of a jeweled stone face...
Find a stone statue with jewels in their eyes and set off a party popper for them!

The player must use the "Party Popper" while being in front of the blue eyed face in Sands of Time lobby, up the water column on the right.

Day 3

“The latest seems like a great pool, or perhaps a splash of water?I need more time to be sure...„ — Puzzle Helper

A large pool of water, spiralling down...
The secret must be at the bottom of a large puddle... or lake!

There is a pool with golden duck on the left of the Ace Race portal in the main lobby. The player must dive into the water and find a stone pressure plate, which opens a trapdoor covering the entrance into a narrow tunnel. Then the player has to complete a series of rooms with parkour challenges and jump into a water column portal at the end.

Day 4

“The previous one has a disco ball and a person?They're all very strange and mysterious...„ — Puzzle Helper

A crystal ball in front of a dazzled green audience...
Place a Disco Ball Find in front of a dazzled green audience!

Go to the Grid Runners lobby. Walk through the right exit of the waiting area and walk straight. Go to the second floor of the audience area watching over Copy the Painting. There is a green audience member with stars in their eyes at the left of the upper platform. Use a disco ball in front of them to complete the challenge.

Day 5

“The last one is baffling. A black and yellow circle, with a Cake and a H?Perhaps the slash is separating them...„ — Puzzle Helper

A striped black and yellow square opening, with a slice of cake over a H...
Find the striped black and yellow entrance! That must lead to H, then eat some cake!

Go to the Meltdown lobby. Enter the building then turn left and walk up the stairs. Keep following the top platform until you come close to the black and yellow circle then jump on the two platforms of trapdoors (see image). Complete the Parkour challenge and at the end you will arrive at a helipad. Eat slice of cake while standing on the helipad to complete the challenge.

Day 6

“Yesterday's painting had sparkling numbers! And a mountain!Fascinating stuff!„ — Puzzle Helper

A firework at the top of an icy mountain...
Climb the tallest peak and set off a firework!

In the main lobby, there is a mountain between the Grid Runners portal and Meltdown portal. Get to the platform with elytra gates and entrance to the cave. Go to the right of the cave entrance, where there is a path that leads you to the upper part of the mountain. You need to complete a parkour path up the mountain and eventually you will be at the peak. Use the Birthday Fireworks to complete the challenge.

Day 7

“This last one is the most confusing.The hands seems to be holding together? Or clapping?Then there's a frog and a door...I need some time to put my ideas together.Tomorrow I will solve the mysteries!„ — Puzzle Helper

Find the door and clap in front of it! That must lead to the Frog Prince.
But what do you do with a frog prince?
I heard a story about kissing a frog prince, but surely that can't be it...

The player must use the "Clapping" emote in front of the castle entrance (located right before the second elytra gate in Ace Race). They must then navigate the castle to find the Frog Prince at the top of a tower, talk to the frog and kiss it.

MC Championship Cape
Guests who have completed all 15 challenges received the MC Championship Cape. It was automatically be available in Bedrock Edition which later then added to Java Edition.

The official MC Championship Cape.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Icon

Render

MC Championship Cape

Cape

Legendary

Sounds
Main article: MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party/Sounds
Videos





Trivia
The name of the world is "french_toast". This is a tradition by Noxcrew to name the project after breakfast foods.
Throughout the map, there are many hard to reach or obscure locations that the plushies can be seen in, often doing some sort of visual gag. For example, at the peak of the mountain in the main lobby is a pink parrot, and on a cliff near the Sands of Time entrance is a lime llama and cyan coyote eating a cake under an umbrella.
Some MC Championship elements are referenced throughout lobbies. This includes the "Cliff" map from TGTTOS (To Get To The Other Side). In the Grid Runners lobby, colored bridges referencing either TGTTOS or Sky Battle in the Sands of Time lobby, note blocks tuned to reference the "Decision Dome" theme from the MC Championship OST bellow the Grid Runners portal, and a parkour referencing the Parkour Warrior lobby from MC Championship Island near the trophy room.
In most mini-games on the server, players are put in Adventure mode to disallow them from breaking blocks. However, Grid Runners requires the players to collect crops during Bake a Cake. To allow for that, the players are put in Survival mode, and an inaccessible platform made out of deny blocks is placed underneath the lobby instead, with holes for the blocks that are supposed to be breakable.
In the announcement article, the release time accounts for DST, even though the timezones are described as non-DST. The closing time doesn't account for DST and the timezones are described as non-DST.
During the event, it was estimated that "a collective 440 years" was spent, consisting of several notable achievements. This included:
35 million games played
3 billion coins spent
976,939 yellow yak beanies, the most of any
4,574,418 painted blocks, 259 per minute
15 million laps in Ace Race
16 million mobs frozen in Meltdown, 10,148 per minute
16 million games of Sands of Time, approximately 32% escaping
39 years spent in Sands of Time
8,282,151 cake slices eaten
6,515,047 gifts given
One million disco balls used
Gallery
Promotional images



			The Ace Race mini-game.



			The Grid Runners mini-game.



			The Sands of Time mini-game.



			The shop.


Screenshots
Hub



			The spawn.



			The hub seen from the sky.



			The Ace Race area.



			The Grid Runners area.



			The Sands of Time area.



			The Meltdown area.



			The toy shop.



			The food shop.



			The mysterious cave entrance.



			The mysterious cave.



			The Trophy Room entrance.



			The Trophy Room.



			The lake related to the third mystery cave challenge, leading to the stronghold.



			A room in the stronghold.



			A room in the stronghold.



			A room in the stronghold.



			A room in the stronghold.



			The exit room of the stronghold.



			A secret room with note blocks playing the "Decision Dome" theme from MC Championship.



			The entrance of the secret room.



			A player attempting a parkour



			A bench overlooking nothing.



			A house located above the food store.



			The food store kitchen.



			The food store's dining room.



			The food store's outdoor dining room.



			A beach volleyball court.



			The path to the mysterious cave.



			A plush in a cardboard castle, above the Meltdown portal.



			The path to the top of the mountain.



			The top of the mountain, related to the sixth mystery cave challenge.


Ace Race



			The Ace Race spawn island seen from the sky.



			The starting line.



			The beginning of the first section.



			The beginning of the second section.



			The beginning of the third section.



			The beginning of the fourth section.



			The end of the fourth section.



			The beginning of the fifth section.



			The beginning of the sixth section.



			The beginning of the seventh section.



			The seventh section.



			The beginning of the eighth section.



			The eighth section.



			The finishing line.



			Seapeekay in the Ace Race lobby.



			The prince's frog form.



			The prince's human form.


Grid Runners



			The Grid Runners waiting room.



			The first section of the waiting room parkour (right).



			The second section of the waiting room parkour (right).



			The third section of the waiting room parkour (right).



			The finish line of Grid Runners.



			A parkour inspired by the TGTTOS "Cliff" map from MC Championship.



			Ditto.



			Ditto.



			Players being launched into the game.



			Players in the "Defeat the Beasts" section of the game seen from the top.



			Players in the "Copy the Painting" section of the game seen from the top.



			Players in the "Bake a Cake" section of the game seen from the top.



			Players in the "Defeat the Beasts" section.



			Players in the "Copy the Painting" section.



			Players in the "Bake a Cake" section.



			The Lost Pearl.



			A creeper carved into a cliff.



			A cage resembling the Sands of Time cage.



			Smajor in the Grid Runners lobby.



			The spectator related to the fourth mystery cave challenge


Sands of Time



			The Sands of Time lobby seen from the sky.



			Ditto.



			Ditto.



			The Sands of Time lobby.



			Bridges referencing Sky Battle in the Sands of Time lobby.



			Orange Ocelot plushies in the Sands of Time lobby.



			Purple Panda plushies in a copper structure in the Sands of Time lobby.



			Red Rabbits plushies in the Sands of Time lobby.



			An Aqua Axolotls plushie looking at the Sands of Time map from the lobby.



			A view at the Sands of Time map from the lobby.



			Ditto.



			A point of view from inside the dungeons from the previous screenshot.



			The center of the dungeon.



			An iron chest and an iron key (in the background) in the dungeon.



			A parkour in the dungeon.



			A player fighting a zombie.



			Two evokers guarding sand and coins.



			A diamond key at the top of a cliff.



			A mural indicating the exit.



			A room.



			A gold chest.



			A player trying to parkour on chains.



			An easter egg in the Sands of Time lobby.



			The statue related to the second mystery cave challenge.



			HBomb94 in the Sands of Time lobby.


Meltdown



			The Meltdown lobby.



			The inside of the Meltdown lobby building.



			A cafeteria in the Meltdown lobby building.



			A view of players playing the game from the Meltdown lobby building.



			A secret passage leading to the roof.



			The roof.



			The Meltdown lobby seen from the roof.



			The waiting room.



			The first room.



			The first room melting.



			The second room.



			The second room melting.



			The third room.



			The third room.



			The fourth room.



			The fourth room.



			The fifth room.



			A player observing and clapping at players in the fifth room from the lobby.



			The sixth room.



			The sixth room.



			The sixth room.



			The seventh room.



			The seventh room.



			The ending room, leading to the lobby.



			A hot tub in the ending room.



			A view to the game from the ending room.



			A zombie stuck in an ice block.



			A creeper face in a meeting room in the lobby building.



			hannahxxrose in the Meltdown lobby.



			The entrance of the lobby building.



			The first room following the vent, leading to the rooftop.



			The rooftop.



			The helipad related to the fifth mystery cave challenge.


Character Creator items



			Red Rabbits Head



			Orange Ocelots Head



			Yellow Yaks Head



			Lime Llamas Head



			Green Geckos Head



			Cyan Coyotes Head



			Aqua Axolotls Head



			Blue Bats Head



			Purple Pandas Head



			Pink Parrots Head




			MC Championship Cape



			Ride To Victory emote



			Victory Cartwheel emote



			Chicken Flying emote



			Crowd Kisses emote


Renders



			Red Rabbits plush



			Orange Ocelots plush.



			Yellow Yaks plush.



			Lime Llamas plush.



			Green Geckos plush.



			Cyan Coyotes plush.



			Aqua Axolotls plush.



			Blue Bats plush.



			Purple Pandas plush.



			Pink Parrots plush.




			Red Rabbits beanie.



			Orange Ocelots beanie.



			Yellow Yaks beanie.



			Lime Llamas beanie.



			Green Geckos beanie.



			Cyan Coyotes beanie.



			Aqua Axolotls beanie.



			Blue Bats beanie.



			Purple Pandas beanie.



			Pink Parrots beanie.




			Red Rabbits balloons.



			Orange Ocelots balloons.



			Yellow Yaks balloons.



			Lime Llamas balloons.



			Green Geckos balloons.



			Cyan Coyotes balloons.



			Aqua Axolotls balloons.



			Blue Bats balloons.



			Purple Pandas balloons.



			Pink Parrots balloons.




			Red Rabbits balloons.



			Orange Ocelots balloons.



			Yellow Yaks balloons.



			Lime Llamas balloons.



			Green Geckos balloons.



			Cyan Coyotes balloons.



			Aqua Axolotls balloons.



			Blue Bats balloons.



			Purple Pandas balloons.



			Pink Parrots balloons.




			Red Rabbits bunting.



			Orange Ocelots bunting.



			Yellow Yaks bunting.



			Lime Llamas bunting.



			Green Geckos bunting.



			Cyan Coyotes bunting.



			Aqua Axolotls bunting.



			Blue Bats bunting.



			Purple Pandas bunting.



			Pink Parrots bunting.

















			An iron chest opening in Sands of Time.



			An iron chest locked in Sands of Time.



			Ditto.



			A gold chest opening in Sands of Time.



			A gold chest locked in Sands of Time.



			Ditto.



			A diamond chest opening in Sands of Time.



			A diamond chest locked in Sands of Time.



			Ditto.



			A netherite chest opening in Sands of Time.



			A netherite chest locked in Sands of Time.



			Ditto.



			An iron key in Sands of Time.



			A gold key in Sands of Time.



			A diamond key in Sands of Time.



			A netherite key in Sands of Time.



			A boots upgrade in Sands of Time.



			A leggings upgrade in Sands of Time.



			A chestplate upgrade in Sands of Time.



			A block of sand in Sands of Time



			A small coin pile in Sands of Time.



			A medium coin pile in Sands of Time.



			A large coin pile in Sands of Time.


NPCs



			Puzzle Helper brushing



			Puzzle Helper giving hints



			Puzzle Helper sitting



			Puzzle Helper special animation



			hannahxxrose idle animation



			hannahxxrose special animation



			hannahxxrose special animation



			HBomb94 idle animation



			HBomb94 special animation



			HBomb94 special animation



			Seapeekay idle animation



			Seapeekay special animation



			Seapeekay special animation



			Smajor idle animation



			Smajor special animation



			Smajor special animation




			Food vendor idle animation.



			Food vendor special animation.



			Hat vendor idle animation.



			Hat vendor special animation.



			Mascot vendor idle animation.



			Mascot vendor special animation.



			Toy vendor idle animation.



			Toy vendor special animation.


Blocks
Main article: /Block renders
See also
Grid Runners, a Marketplace map featuring the first incarnation of Grid Runners
Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map also made for MC Championship
Notes

 Can also refer to MCC Party, a completely different event held on November 11, 2023 by Noxcrew, independent of Mojang.

 A pizza slice is given to a player when another player uses the Box of pizza item on them.

References

 "MCC x Minecraft: The Ender Cup is almost here"   (Archive)  by Cristina Anderca  – minecraft.net, July 16, 2024. "The event will be open between July 22 at 10am PST / 7pm CET to August 4 at 3pm PST / August 5 at 12am CET."

 "MINECON Earth 2018 Livestream"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 29, 2018

 "they'll be at 5pm utc"  in MC Championship – @lucyy.p on Discord, July 22, 2024.

 "it's tradition to name mcc projects after breakfast foods"  in MC Championship – @lucyy.p on Discord, July 28, 2024.

 "What a way to celebrate the @Minecraft 15 Year Anniversary! 🎉"  – @Noxcrew  on X (formerly Twitter), August 16, 2024

Navigation