This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

McDonald's skins

Creator

Starfish Studios

Skins

5 (1 per skin pack)

Price

Free

Release date

April 1, 2025

{
    "title": "McDonald's skins",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Starfish Studios",
            "label": "Creator"
        },
        {
            "field": "5 (1 per skin pack)",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "April 1, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "AMCM adult meal skins.jpeg"
    ]
}

Key artworks of the skin packs

McDonald's skins refers to a group of several skins of both McDonaldland characters and original designs themed after Minecraft that were released as part of the A Minecraft Movie Free Skin Offer. Instead of a singular skin pack with all characters, multiple skin packs with individual skins were released. These skins are obtained by purchasing a Minecraft Movie meal for adults at McDonald's and then redeeming the code printed on the character trading card that comes with the corresponding character toy included in the meal.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History
4 Issues
5 Gallery

5.1 Promotional images

6 See also
7 Notes
8 References
9 Navigation

Skins

Name

Image

Description

Grimace Egg

McDonald's mascot Grimace, a large purple Grimace with a bell-like silhouette and friendly face, ironically not grimacing.

Birdie Wings

McDonald's mascot Birdie, an "early bird" who loves breakfast and struggles to fly.

Soda Potion

A sentient version of a soda potion, with a cheeky face and a humanoid shape, similar to Kool-Aid Man.

Zombie Hamburglar

A zombified version of the Hamburglar character with a red tie featuring 75% of the McDonald's M.

Big Mac Crystal

A sentient Big Mac in a yellow business suit with a red tie featuring 75% of the McDonald's M.

Quotes
“Emerging from the depths of a purple shake, this magical Grimace mob gets its shape from the most coveted egg of them all„ — Grimace Egg description
“Keep your eye to the sky or you might miss the iconic early bird soaring high above the clouds with a rare pair of Elytra Wings„ — Birdie Wings description

“The electrifying effect of this potion is as mysterious as its recipe: an accidental combo of fantastic fizzy flavors„ — Soda Potion description

“Little is known about this hungry mob who spawns late at night and wanders all biomes in search of hamburgers„ — Zombie Hamburglar description

“Mined from the Sea of Special Sauce, this precious block derives its radiant shine from melty cheese and a toasty sesame seed bun„ — Big Mac Crystal description
History



This section is missing information about: Details about the start/end of the promo through which the skins are obtained 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Bedrock EditionMarch 24, 2025
The McDonald's skins are added to the Marketplace database.April 1, 2025
Sales for A Minecraft Movie adult meal at McDonald's begins.April 6, 2025
The McDonald's skins are demonstrated on A Minecraft Movie Meal Stream.
Issues
Issues relating to "McDonald's skins" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Promotional images







			Teaser of skin pack.



			Redeem page art.


See also
McDonald's Add-On, another McDonald's DLC release, also promoting the movie.
Fry Helmet, McDonalds character creator item release which was also released as part of the A Minecraft Movie Free Skin Offer.
Notes

 Free with purchase. Not available on the Marketplace without a redemption code.

References

 "ok @aminecraftmovie meal AND happy meal spawn in ur biome 4/1 wyd?"  – @McDonalds  on X (formerly Twitter), March 20, 2025

Navigation