This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


 Not to be confused with Meet the Mob.

Artwork for Meet the Mobs experience at the Alton Towers resort location
Meet the Mobs is an interactive experience taking place from July 18 to August 28, 2026 in Alton Towers and Gardaland. It was announced on April 18, 2026 for the Gardaland resort and on June 11, 2026 for the Alton Towers resort.

Contents

1 Overview

1.1 Meet the Mobs Trail

1.1.1 Baby Axolotl Bucket Hat

1.2 Meet & greets
1.3 Minecraft Hub

2 Videos
3 Gallery

3.1 Official artwork
3.2 Promotional images

4 References
5 See also
6 Navigation

Overview
Meet the Mobs Trail
Meet the Mobs Trail consists in 6 scenes focused around babies scattered throughout the resort.
Guests can obtain a trail card from the hub in one of the stands. The card can be stamped at each scene; after collecting all required stamps, guests can return to the hub to receive a code to redeem a character creator item.

Scene

Image

Description

Kitten

The kitten scene features five kittens in a Minecraft base.
"Double Time (Tumble)" plays while kitten make cat sounds.

Baby pig

The pig scene features 3 baby pigs in a mud pit and randomly spouting jets of water.
"Comforting Memories" plays while pigs oink.

Baby panda

The panda scene features 3 baby pandas, a parrot, and two animated campfires in ruins.
"Firebugs" plays while the parrot make ambient sounds and the pandas make eating sounds.

Puppy

The puppy scene features 3 puppies looking down at bones, and a baby rabbit.
"Creator" plays while the puppies make various bark and shaking sounds.

Chick

The chick scene features 8 chicks in a tower about to use a launch pad.
"Spears" plays while the chicks make peeps.

Baby sheep

The sheep scene features 2 baby sheep and two baby piglins coming out of a Nether portal.
"Pigstep" plays while the sheep baah and the portal make ambient sounds.

Baby Axolotl Bucket Hat



This section would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

Promotional image of the baby axolotl bucket hat

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Icon

Render

Baby Axolotl Bucket Hat

Headwear

Rare

Meet & greets
Meet & greets are occasionally organized throughout the resort featuring mascots representing the following Minecraft mobs:

Creeper
Iron golem
Chicken jockey
Steve (Exclusive to Gardaland)
Axolotl
Baby panda
Chick
Baby wolf
Minecraft Hub



This section is missing information about: the games. 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

The Minecraft Hub consists in an area with themed snack stands and shop selling exclusive merchandise.
The following games are occasionally organized:

Zombie freeze
Creeper countdown
Baby mob footsteps
Pig panic toss
Bee buzz chase
Videos





Gallery
Official artwork



			A promotional render depicting baby mobs



			A promotional render depicting a chicken and a tower of chicks



			An axolotl



			A creeper



			A chick on a pig


Promotional images














References

 "Minecraft Meet the Mobs at Alton Towers Resort"   (Archive)  – Alton Towers Resort.

 "Minecraft Meet the Mobs"   (Archive)  – Gardaland.

 "Incontra i tuoi personaggi Minecraft preferiti dal vivo!🤯" – @gardaland on Instagram, April 18, 2026

 "NEW for Summer 2026: @minecraft Meet the Mobs 💥⛏️" – @altontowers on Instagram, June 11, 2026

 https://www.gardaland.it/en/explore-gardaland/events-special-openings/minecraft/

See also
Minecraft World – the theme parks created by the same company.
Navigation