Meet a Minecrafter

Type

Interview series

Starring

Various Minecraft players

Date

November 7, 2018 - November 4, 2023

Available on

YouTube

{
    "title": "Meet a Minecrafter",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Interview series",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "Various ''Minecraft'' players",
            "label": "Starring"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 7, 2018 - November 4, 2023",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to YouTube article, displayed as YouTube)",
            "label": "Available on"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Meet a Minecrafter is a series on the Minecraft YouTube channel that features interviews, experiences, and notable works in the Minecraft community.
Created on October 10, 2018, the series' playlist currently counts with 26 videos.

Contents

1 Videos
2 Quotes
3 References
4 Navigation

Videos

Airing

Thumbnail

Minecrafter

Description

October 10th, 2018

Dr Mick Donegan, Ian Clements

Meet Dr Mick Donegan, CEO of Special Effect. Special Effect is a UK charity, levelling the playing field for gamers with disabilities. They have created EyeMine, a Windows-based software that helps people with severe disabilities play Minecraft – people like Ian Clements.

November 7th, 2018

Patricia Romea

Meet Patricia Romero – a teacher who used Minecraft in her own classroom in Mexico as part of ‘Coral Crafters’ – our project to help the world’s coral reefs! Patricia and her students were an integral part of Coral Crafters success. Here she talks about using Minecraft in the classroom and the Coral Crafters project.

December 8th, 2018

Stephen Reid

Meet Stephen Reid, founder of Immersive Minds. Immersive Minds believe in education through innovative use of tech, and have collaborated with teachers to produce a Minecraft map called 'The Refugee Crisis'. This map is used in schools and allow students to experience war – specifically, the aspect of having to flee for safety from the perspective of a family in the UK. It's a Minecraft adventure map with an educational purpose, designed to teach people about the harsh reality of life for a refugee.

January 23rd, 2019

Riku Kato

Riku Kato recreated a Japanese World Heritage Site called Battleship Island in a brilliant Minecraft map that you can find here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xx8UhJKq1H8&pp=0gcJCR0AztywvtLA. So we took him to Nagasaki to visit the real Battleship Island!

March 11th, 2019

Cory Scheviak

Meet Minecraft developer Cory Scheviak! Originally from North Carolina, Cory created a Puerto Rico-inspired mod called Tropicraft, out of which came Love Tropics, a fundraiser generating thousands of dollars for the victims of Hurricane Maria. Cory now has his dream job at Mojang in Stockholm!

April 12th, 2019

Maiko Yamamoto, Hok

What do Beowulf, Bambi and the Terminator have in common? They all feature in "Mine", an experimental theatre show from Maiko Yamamoto and her son Hok which explores mother and son relationships through Minecraft!

May 8th, 2019

SethBling

Welcome back, SethBling here. Playable guitars! Flushable toilets! The Atari 2600 (ask your parents!) SethBling has made them all work in Minecraft. But how does he do it? Is he a witch? Watch the video to find out! (Spoiler alert: he's not a witch. Probably.)

June 18th, 2019

Josh Wulf, Prahlad

When Prahlad Wulf got diagnosed with type 1 diabetes as an 8-year old, his father Josh wanted to find a way to support children and families living with it, as well as inform them on the challenges they face. Together, they came up with ‘Minecraft for Type 1 Diabetes’ , a Minecraft mod that gives kids the opportunity to experience how it is living with type 1 diabetes and teaches them the interaction of blood glucose, insulin, and carbs.

July 26th, 2019

Ph1LzA

How does it feel to survive playing Hardcore mode for five years, only to be taken down by a zombie? A BABY zombie, no less. Ph1LzA returns from the dead to give us the inside scoop on his approach to hardcore, surviving for so long and his streaming life after death!

September 11th, 2019

OMGTech!

What do the Māori language (Te Reo Māori) and Creepers have in common? Well, they are both found in Minecraft! Thanks to the efforts of OMGTech!, who translated their “Hour of Code” Minecraft tutorial into Te Reo Māori and brought it to language-immersive schools.

October 18th, 2019

James Delaney

James Delaney, one of the founders of Blockworks, speaks to us in Siena! Delaney talks us through his journey playing Minecraft, to founding Blockworks, and finally to becoming a member of the Block by Block board. Bravo!

January 27th, 2020

Mr. Leopard, Qiandai, A'Liang

Always wanted to experience China’s ancient cities and rich heritage? You’re in luck! Meet the four passionate Minecrafters who’ve dedicated themselves to recreating many of their country’s breathtaking landmarks – for the whole world to experience!

February 14th, 2020

Aklilu Fikresilassie, Almaz Mekonnen Zeray

There are countless ways to play Minecraft, but this neighborhood in Addis Ababa chose to use it as a tool instead. Watch how an entire community comes together to turn a polluted area into a new park!

March 13th, 2020

Janey Laney

Are those bee suits as soft as they look? Minecraft streamer Janey Laney was lucky enough to find out at last year’s MINECON! We sat down to talk all about bee dances, positive role models and bringing cultures together through the power of Minecraft.

April 10th, 2020

Jacob Hashimoto

Meet Jacob Hashimoto, an artist who creates beautiful room-sized sculptures inspired by Minecraft. Jacob reflects on the value that long play sessions of Minecraft can have, both on the art world and on young minds overall. So if you were looking for an excuse to spend hours and hours on a build, look no further!

May 16th, 2020

Moné Ukonu

The Urban Girls Movement helps girls find improvements for their neighborhoods by building them in Minecraft before bringing them to life in the real world. Does that include Creepers? There’s only one way to find out!

June 13th, 2020

Brooks Peck, Jacob McMurray, Kwapi Vengesayi, Rosie Alyea, Martin Christoffel

Have you ever wanted to step into your Minecraft world? Of course you have! Thanks to the Minecraft Exhibit at the Museum of Pop Culture in Seattle, visitors can punch trees for wood, use a working crafting table, and avoid real skeletons. They didn’t mention Creepers, so proceed with caution! If you want to experience it for yourself, keep an eye on http://www.mopop.org/minecraft for updates on the exhibit’s reopening and tour!

July 10th, 2020

Katja Hofmann, Will Guss

In this first of our two-part series on Minecraft and Artificial Intelligence, Katja Hofmann (Microsoft Research) and Will Guss (OpenAI and Carnegie Mellon University) talk about how they are using Minecraft to push the boundaries of AI research, and how lava might one day help a house-cleaning robot know where your carpet is.

August 14th, 2020

Kavya Srinet, Arthur Szlam

In the second half of our Minecraft and Artificial Intelligence series, the Facebook AI Research team describe their Craft Assist project and how Minecraft is helping them study the way humans can interact with computers using natural language.

September 10th, 2020

Stuart Duncan

When Stuart Duncan (a.k.a. AutismFather) realized that kids with autism were getting bullied, he started Autcraft https://www.autcraft.com/. His server is a sanctuary for members of the Autistic community – a safe space where they can play, craft, and communicate without fear.

November 20th, 2020

Woodes

Join Woodes for her debut album launch in Minecraft! Together with her  @Woodes Music  community and videographer Reuben Gore, the Australian artist has created an immersive experience for her fans. The Crystal Ball world is a musical museum where you can walk from song to song, find hidden lyrics, and of course, dance the night away.

December 18th, 2020

Christopher O'Meally

In this edition of Meet a Minecrafter, we explore the world of Blind Minecraft. Join Chris (aka Logic Pro X Gaming) to learn how sound and text-to-speech make it possible for blind players to play Minecraft, and how zombies flipped the script by saving his life!

April 9th, 2021

Bacon_Mom

Meet Bacon_Mom. Artist. Grandmother. Minecrafter. Together with her grandchildren and the Minecraft community, she creates beautiful art that doesn’t leave any mess that needs cleaning up. We also check in with Jeff, a professor of Communications & Creative Media who walks us through the different aspects of picking up video games in a later age.

January 28th, 2022

Dennis Vareide

There are many mysteries waiting for you in Minecraft 1.19, but they pale in comparison to the ones that surround the official Minecraft trailer. Did a fan trailer really turn the creator into a movie star? And what happened to that guy, didn’t he die? Dennis Vareide is here to answer these questions and disprove the conspiracy theory of his death. Because as you can see, he is very much alive!

April 8th, 2023

Nora Pulido Montealegre, Gabriel García Rodríguez

Discover the story of how a Minecraft build led to the restoration of a real-life historical building!  Meet Nora and Gabriel, who work on the dissemination of cultural heritage and history through Minecraft. Combining architecture, history, and education with Minecraft, Gabriel creates replicas of buildings of cultural and historical significance in the game, which they work together to promote on social media. Find out how their work has led to the restoration of the church of Santiago Apóstol de Villamorón!

November 4th, 2023

José Manuel Salado Fernández

José Manuel Salado Fernández has been playing Minecraft since the very beginning. Alongside his fellow colleagues, he teaches children about their potential to change their environment. Watch as they venture into the small towns of Malaga, Spain, to brainstorm ideas for enhancing the lives of its residents – then visualize it using Minecraft!

Quotes
“Who is Minecraft for? Everyone! Take a trip around the world with us as we meet Minecrafters from different walks of life.„ — Minecraft YouTube Channel
References

 Meet a Minecrafter - YouTube, April 1, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: EyeMine Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Patricia Romero! - YouTube Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Immersive Minds' Refugee Crisis Map Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Riku Kato visits Battleship Island, which he remade in Minecraft! Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Cory Scheviak Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Theatre Replacement Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: SethBling Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Prahlad & Josh Wulf Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Ph1LzA Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: OMG Tech! Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: James Delaney & Blockworks Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Creating Chinese Cities Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Ethiopian Park Project Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Janey Laney Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Jacob Hashimoto Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Urban Girls Movement Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: MoPOP Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Artificial Intelligence (Part 1) Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Artificial Intelligence (Part 2) Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Autcraft Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Woodes Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Blind Minecraft Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 Meet a Minecrafter: Grandparent Gamers ft Bacon Mom Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 "First Minecraft Trailer Mystery – Solved!! (ft Dennis Vareide)"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 From Minecraft To Reality - Meet A Minecrafter Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

 From Blocks to Bricks: Crafting Our Town's Future Minecraft on YouTube, April 2, 2025

Navigation