This article is about features mentioned by Mojang developers.   For features that are being added, see Planned versions.   For Java Edition features that are unused, see Java Edition unused features.  For Bedrock Edition features that are unused, see Bedrock Edition unused features.



This article needs cleanup to comply with the style guide. [discuss]
Please help improve this page. The talk page may contain suggestions.

The sky dimension, one of many mentioned features.
Since the beginning of Minecraft's development, there have been a number of features that were mentioned by developers at Mojang Studios. These features are either currently planned and have not yet appeared in a development version or have simply been dropped entirely.
Note that this page only documents features that were mentioned, but are not yet in the game. Features in development versions are described on the parent version page.

Contents

1 Planned

1.1 Unannounced

1.1.1 GUI update

1.2 Announced

1.2.1 Combat changes
1.2.2 Illager variants
1.2.3 Voted updates
1.2.4 Vibrant Visuals water improvements

2 Partially implemented

2.1 Mobs

2.1.1 Mob Vote
2.1.2 More ocean creatures
2.1.3 Zach and Coco

2.2 Blocks and items

2.2.1 Spike block
2.2.2 Ruby
2.2.3 Paeonia
2.2.4 Paddle
2.2.5 Rare tools/weapons
2.2.6 Steel

2.3 Mechanics

2.3.1 Farming nerf
2.3.2 Sky dimension
2.3.3 Updates to birch forests and other biomes

2.4 Feedback site

3 Delayed or scrapped

3.1 Alpacas
3.2 Colored Planks
3.3 Cubic chunks
3.4 Coral slab
3.5 Fletching table functionality
3.6 Firefly mob
3.7 Green axolotl
3.8 Pigman bodyguard
3.9 Quiver
3.10 Sculk jaw
3.11 Red dragon
3.12 Underground cabin

4 Mentioned

4.1 Mobs

4.1.1 Camouflaging mob
4.1.2 Lava zombie and troll
4.1.3 Prefix mobs
4.1.4 Reindeer

4.2 Biomes and environment

4.2.1 Cave and underground features
4.2.2 Seasons
4.2.3 Nether features

4.3 Blocks and items

4.3.1 Scarecrows
4.3.2 Calamari

5 Technical

5.1 Java Edition

5.1.1 Full split of liquids from blocks
5.1.2 Phasing out of NBT-based crafting recipes
5.1.3 Shaders
5.1.4 Super Fancy graphics
5.1.5 Inventory changes
5.1.6 Lua scripting
5.1.7 Off-hand changes
5.1.8 Workbench (Plugin API)
5.1.9 Switching from OpenGL to Vulkan

5.2 Bedrock Edition

5.2.1 RTX
5.2.2 World generation
5.2.3 Interface/controls
5.2.4 Other world sizes
5.2.5 Loading external files on console

6 Brief mentions

6.1 General features
6.2 Mentioned in 2009
6.3 Mentioned in 2010
6.4 Mentioned in 2011
6.5 Mentioned in 2012
6.6 Mentioned in 2013
6.7 Mentioned in 2014
6.8 Mentioned in 2015
6.9 Mentioned in 2016
6.10 Mentioned in 2017
6.11 Mentioned in 2018
6.12 Mentioned in 2019
6.13 Mentioned in 2020
6.14 Mentioned in 2021
6.15 Mentioned in 2022
6.16 Mentioned in 2023
6.17 Mentioned in 2024
6.18 Mentioned in 2025
6.19 Mentioned in 2026

7 Mistakes
8 Joke features
9 See also
10 References
11 Navigation

Planned
Unannounced
These features have not been officially announced, but mentioned in-game or by Mojang employees.

GUI update
While Ore UI is rolling out to menu screens over the years, unused assets have been added to the files that include redesigned inventory screens and the hotbar. Developers shared teasers of work in progress updated menus, containing general improvements in the style of Ore UI, and graphically themed backgrounds with unique textures for each screen, such as brown chest screens or colored shulker box containers.

Main article: Ore UI § Gameplay


			An early look of the new hotbar.



			An early look of the new inventory and recipe book screen.



			An early look of the new workbench screen.



			An early look of the lit furnace (50%) screen.



			An early look of the smoker screen.



			An early look of the anvil on input field screen.



			An early look of the hopper screen.



			An early look of the bundle (50%) tooltip.



			An early look of the ender chest container screen.



			An early look of the weathered copper chest container screen.



			An early look of the green shulker box container screen.



			The current version of the gameplay atlas


Announced
These features are planned to come to Minecraft sometime in the future.

Combat changes
Main article: Java Edition Combat Tests
A new combat system is currently in development, containing changes such as the player only being able to attack when their weapon is fully drawn. However, as of 2026, the latest combat test is Combat Test 8c, which was released in August 2020.

Illager variants
In 2017, a jocular suggestion regarding adding more types of illagers was posted. One of them, the pillager, has been implemented in Village & Pillage. The spin-off game Minecraft Dungeons introduced many such illagers, such as enchanters, geomancers, and wind callers. One of them, the iceologer, was an option in the Mob Vote at Minecraft Live 2020. In 2024, an episode of The Story of Mobs implied that even more illagers were planned.

Voted updates
The desert and savanna biome reworks are the two remaining biome frameworks from the MINECON Earth 2018 Biome Chooser vote. Although no date has been given, both are promised to be updated in a future update:

Deserts will be given palm trees, oases, and meerkats.
Savannas will be given baobab trees, termites, and ostriches.
The badlands biome rework is the last remaining biome rework from the MINECON Live 2019 Biome Vote, as the winning mountains rework was implemented in Caves & Cliffs, and the swamp rework was part of The Wild Update. The badlands are promised to be updated in an unspecified future update:

Badlands will be given vultures, tumbleweed, and a new cactus based on the Prickly Pear.
Other live votes did not promise that the losing options would be planned; for information on those features, see the "Partially implemented" section.



			Upcoming desert features.



			Upcoming savanna features.



			Upcoming badlands features.


Vibrant Visuals water improvements
Biome-specific water colors are not visible with Vibrant Visuals, but some "exciting tweaks in different biomes" have been announced for future updates. Shortly after, a setting in the water definition has been added to let creators increase contribution of biome water colors to the light scattering, but this does not apply any colors.

Partially implemented
Mobs
Mob Vote
Main article: Community Vote
More ocean creatures
Markus Persson commented that sea monsters were a possibility on Minecast on July 21, 2010. He particularly noted the possibility of sharks, though Mojang has since then stated that they will not be added. At MinecraftCon 2010, he also commented on the possibility of adding sea monsters. Hostile aquatic mobs like the guardian and drowned have been added since then. Another developer hinted about adding mobs involved adding seals/sea lions and/or orcas.

Zach and Coco
In November 2018, a poll was held in which users could vote on which cat should be added to Minecraft. There were three options: Jellie, Zach, or Coco. Jellie won the vote and was added to the game in Village & Pillage. It is unknown whether the other two cats will be added.



			Jellie, Zach and Coco


Blocks and items
Spike block
Spikes received a mention in mid-2009 by Notch in a blog post. These were originally planned for Java Edition Beta 1.7, working by extending and retracting spikes (and making them more "spike pistons" than anything), but were replaced by sticky pistons. On May 28, 2012, Nathan Adams stated that he'd like to add spike blocks, but is unsure of how to implement them.
Caves & Cliffs implemented pointed dripstone, which can damage mobs and players that fall on them, or are crushed by them.

Ruby
Jeb's screenshot showing rubies.
Rubies were intended to be the original currency used for trading. They could be seen in a screenshot released by Jeb on May 21, 2012, in which the trading system was first being tested. They were later replaced by emeralds because Dinnerbone is red-green colorblind; though their texture remained in the files after emeralds were implemented.

Paeonia
The paeonia screenshot revealed by Jeb on Instagram.
The paeonia was a flower type originally planned for implementation in 1.7.2. Originally revealed by Jeb in a screenshot, the flower was never implemented, being superseded by the peony, though its texture remained in the files after peonies were implemented.

Paddle
On September 19, 2014, Tommaso stated that when adding boats to Pocket Edition, he would add a "paddle" item, which would be required to move boats. Paddles were never implemented as items, but rather as part of the boat model. The crafting recipe used to require a wooden shovel to represent the paddle. As of the 1.20.10 update, a wooden shovel is no longer required to craft a boat or raft in Bedrock Edition.

Rare tools/weapons
Nathan Adams said on Twitter he would like to add weapons/tools that cannot be crafted, and could only be obtained through treasure chests/trading, etc. For example, bows with faster drawback (somewhat implemented with the addition of Quick Charge), boots that increase health, or night vision helmets. However, the attribute system had to be finished first.
Several later additions that follow this rough idea are the Frost Walker and Mending treasure enchantments, as well as the Curses of Binding and Vanishing, and totems of undying. Furthermore, tridents were implemented in Update Aquatic, and in the Nether Update the Soul Speed enchantment was added and made exclusively obtainable through looting bastion remnants and bartering with piglins. In the Wild Update, Swift Sneak was added as an enchantment exclusive to ancient cities, and Tricky Trials added the mace, as well as making tridents available in vaults, along with the Wind Burst enchantment being exclusive to said vaults.

Steel
Multiple references to steel were made early on in the game's development. Notch had stated that it could be made using coal and iron ore, and that it could be used for armor and weapons more powerful than iron. In-game, flint and steel is crafted using iron ingots, considering the lack of steel and the need of a “fire striker”, despite the name of the former.

Mechanics
Farming nerf
It was stated by slicedlime during 1.16's development that certain changes would be made to stop certain functionalities being exploited in several farms. In particular:

Fortress mobs can spawn anywhere inside of the boundary of a Nether fortress rather than only at the roads.
Angry zombified piglins drop experience even when not killed by the player directly.
This was fixed in 1.21.5.
The sculk mechanics introduced in 1.19 may be intended as a replacement.

Sky dimension
Main article: Sky dimension
A plain sky dimension.
The Sky dimension was a planned dimension, intended to be the opposite of the Nether. Portals to the Sky dimension were never implemented, but it could be accessed using third-party programs. The idea was ultimately scrapped and its code was reused to make the End, which can be seen in versions prior to 14w17a as the End's technical biome was still referred to in the debug menu as "Sky".
Unlike the Sky dimension, the End has a dark purple sky, no clouds, and the floating islands are made entirely of End stone.
With the addition of the buffet functionality in Java Edition 1.13 snapshot 18w15a, this can be distantly recreated by using the "Floating Islands" option. The addition of custom world generation in Java Edition 1.16.2 snapshot 20w28a also included a minecraft:floating_islands noise preset offering similar functionality.
Additionally, the Sky dimension was independently recreated into the popular Aether mod.

Updates to birch forests and other biomes
At Minecraft Live 2021, it was stated that The Wild Update would focus on biome diversity and immersion, giving a unique identity and atmosphere to different biomes. The birch forest was used as an example to demonstrate this new atmosphere, and concept art pieces depicting an improved birch forest with new flowers and shelf fungi were shown. Also shown was swamp concept art with fireflies and  flowering lily pads.
Later it was stated that "concept art is not a commitment" and that this part of the update was now "not something we have continued working with" in an Ask Mojang episode.
The short flowers and fireflies were later implemented in Spring to Life as wildflowers and firefly bushes while the shelf fungi will be later implemented in third drop 2026 as shelf mushrooms. The tall flowers and water lilies are yet to see an implementation.



			Concept art for the birch forest.



			Concept art for the swamp.


Feedback site



This section needs to be updated. 
Please update this section to reflect recent updates or newly available information. The talk page may contain suggestions.

On the feedback site, several posts have been marked as "under review" by Mojang. These include:

Click show/hide  to show or hide the list

Add-Ons
Transfer Addons for all platforms
Blocks, Tools and Items
Fruit Trees and Bushes
Bed-sheets with banner designs
Backpacks
Concrete and Terracotta having Slabs, Stairs, and Walls - Concrete slabs and stairs are going to be added with Java Edition 26.3 and Bedrock Edition 26.50
Dyed elytra
Rice
Double Jump Enchantment for Boots
Emerald armor & weapons (was: Emerald Weapons)
Larger Boats (was: Update Aquatic Related Items (Edited))
grappling rope
Trident Repair
Recycling table | Uncrafting
Placeable Gunpowder
Rewritable signs (was: Text on signs) - Added with 23w12a
You can put fish in fish bowls
Potion of Levitation and Glowing
Cloaks
Auto Crafting Block - Added with the crafter in 1.21
Radium, A New Ore For The End With Unique Uses
Making Minecarts more robust (pushing mobs off tracks, faster top speed etc.)
The ability to change a armor stand to a player skin - Partially added with the mannequin
Pearls, Anyone, Anyone?
Rotator Blocks that change the orientation of blocks
Biomes and Dimensions
Oasis
(Dimension) Sky lands
Sandstorms
Biome: Magic Forest
(Swamp) Fog
Giants Biome
Add natural events to the Nether.
Make it rain in savanna biomes so that we can bless the rains down in Africa!
Dream Biome!
Commands
/setbiome, a command that enables you to change the biome of a specific area - Added with the /fillbiome command
/see inventory [player name]
/gravity Command to change gravity. - Partially added with the gravity attribute
/gamerule setExplosionDestruction <true/false>
Commands To Change Sky Color
Clone Update (Clone Your Self!) - Partially added with Mannequin
A /freeze command — Partially added with the /tick freeze command
Dimension teleporter - Implemented in Java Edition with /execute in <dimension> run teleport command
Increase clone command limit
Gameplay
Seasons for most biomes
New moon event
Waves
sleeping anytime of the day
Realistic Lightning
Lumber enchantment
The world generation and Height Limit
Bad Omen Effects
Graphics
Shooting Stars
Cow, pig, chicken variations (was: New Animal Variations) - Added with 1.21.5 and 1.21.70
Add some animations for player to make Minecraft better
Mobs go blip? (mob effect on spawn)
(Bedrock): Level of Detail settings (grass, animal visibility etc)
Launcher
(Java Parity) Skin Editor In Launcher
[Launcher, feature request] Community Voting
Save skin library on the Minecraft account, instead of on the machine
Marketplace
(Feature Request) Purchased Content Sharing
Gifting system for content (was: Give as a gift to friends)
(Minecoin) New player gift
Use minecoins to purchase mods (was: mod list)
(Feature Request) Comments on Marketplace Content
(Feature Request) A Limited Time Offer Sale Section
Minecraft (Franchise)
(Availability) Oculus Quest
Oculus Go version?
snapshot servers
Listen to suggestions on Minecraft Forums and Reddit
Mobs, Animals and non-Humanoids
Requesting a Jellyfish Mob
Owls
Pet Dragons?
Dog beds
Crabs, lobsters, and crab traps.
Monkeys
Different Dog Species Relative to Biomes - Added with 1.20.5
Kraken Boss
Add all the mob heads and a different way to obtain them in survival.
The Red Dragon
Giraffes
Sea horses
Orcas (Tame/Ride) and Rays (Tame)
Adding small rodents (Gerbils, field mice, Rats, guinea pigs and hamsters)
Scorpion mob
Water Dragon
Birds In Minecraft
Add a unique type of mob for each existing biome.
Octopuses
Make parrots breedable
Roaming Pet's
Gray Seals
Cats being able to fish.
Skeleton dogs
A discussion about dragon colors (was: More dragons)
Parity
(Java Parity) Custom World generator/Superflat worlds
(Java Parity) World Border
(Bedrock Parity) Pushable Chests
(Java Parity) Return Quasi-Connectivity! | BUD | Etho Switch
Realms & Dedicated Servers
Realms Render Distance [Bedrock]
Realms Should Have More Player Count & Yearly Subscription Options
Unexpire Realms and Make them Free
Improved Resource Pack Loading for Servers
Add ability to hide "featured" servers from list and expired realms
Realms Servers performance and features
(Java Parity) Allow Minecraft Players To Program Plugins For Minecraft Maps And Realms
Realms on multiple versions of minecraft.
Realms, Need More Protections + Code Randomizer
Out of Game Communication (for realms)
Limit realms by platforms (was: Realms Need to be fixed)
Redstone
Redstone on Walls/Wall placement (was: Placement)
Scripting and Mods
Console mods/Mods on Console
Mod library / workshop
Macros folder in data or behavior packs to define "new" blocks, items, and entities
Sounds
Ambient sounds (was: More ambiant sounds)
Sounds get muffled if you're underwater, far away or behind a wall
Village Raid Themes
Structures
Naturally generated structures need redesign
Lakes
The Beaver Dam, The Beaver, Stick Block
User Interface, Input Methods and Menu Options
Add the ability to disable autosaving and to exit without saving
(Java Parity) Detailed sound settings in bedrock
World Sync / Bedrock
(Java Parity) Add all Java's UI shortcuts to Bedrock
Legacy Console UI Option for the Bedrock Codebase
Turning off monsters only
Switch to turn Political Slogans off in Parental Control
Allow cursor wrap around in the Crafting Table UI for Xbox One
Villagers, NPC, Humanoids
Pets for Villagers.
Baker/Chef villagers
Beach villagers (was: New type of villages.)
Swamp, Woods, Forest Mobs: The Lost and Forgotten
TNT Pillager
Pillager w/ Firework Harry potter style
Website
(Feedback site) Rating system, and Quality Critiquers
(Feedback Site) Voting On New Features
(Feedback site, features) Profile Images!
(Feedback site, login) Feedback site to use mojang accounts instead of microsoft accounts.
Updates Category
(Category Addition) Enchantments Have Their own Section
App for giving feedback
feedback comment sorting
(Category Change) Blocks, Tools, and Items split
(minecraft.net) featured seed of the week
Minecraft.net Mob of the Week
The ability to hide text in a post (feedback.minecraft.net)
Links to MC Feedback rules should be more noticeable!
Add Character counter
Clicking on “Back to _____” on Feedback website
(Feedback Site) Search Improvements
RSS
Tags on posts
(Feedback Site) A Weekly News Update Blog Post
Feedback to Feedback - Filtering option for read ideas
(feedback site) Display Category for "All Posts" view
Translation of the Community Tab.
(feedback site) Images that appear next to post titles
Ability to buy gift codes on Minecraft.net (Java)
(Feedback site) A Notification system for all Changelogs.
(feedback site) Personal vote indicator on post list
Need Feedback Topic for Accessibility Issues?
(Feedback website) Time filters
(feedback site) Default: Sort by new; Archive old posts.
Statistics for identifying posts
Granular Catagories on Feedback Site
(Feedback Website) Hyperlinks on the Windows 10 Edition FAQ aren't really hyperlinks
(Feedback site) Web Widget only returns Knowledge Base Results

Some of these features have either partially or entirely been added, but are still marked as "under review".

Delayed or scrapped
These features were initially promised to be implemented in a specific update, but were later postponed and have not currently been made part of another update.

Alpacas
In 2016, Jeb was planning on adding alpacas, but due to other developers wanting llamas instead, he held an informal poll on Twitter in which the public voted on adding the llama over the alpaca.

Colored Planks
Original image of proposed colored wood planks released by Nathan Adams.
Main article: Colored Planks
Nathan Adams briefly thought about implementing colored wood planks, releasing a test image on his Twitter page. This however never got implemented, as can be seen from the following quotes. The idea was eventually replaced with stained terracotta.

Cubic chunks
This refers to changing the chunk format to make chunks 16 blocks tall, allowing for infinite world height. Ryan Holtz discussed it with Erik Broes, but they decided they couldn't implement it, because of the difficulty of solving problems such as the occlusion of sky light. The feature was previously rejected by Notch for similar reasons.

Coral slab
Screenshot of the footage in which coral slabs can be seen.
In early footage of the Update Aquatic seen at MINECON Earth 2017, slab forms of coral blocks can be seen generated as part of coral reefs. These never made it into a released version for reasons unknown.

Fletching table functionality
Fletching tables are set to gain functionality in a later update, similar to what happened with smithing tables (originally added as a generic villager job site block and then received player functionality in a future update). Originally, this was planned for "the next major themed update". Later, it was stated that functionality wasn't a guarantee for 1.16. Later, it was confirmed that fletching tables wouldn’t be gaining functionality in 1.16. To this day, they still have no functionality beyond serving as the workplace block for fletcher villagers.

Firefly mob
Main article: Firefly (mob)

Fireflies were originally going to be eaten by frogs to produce froglights, but this was scrapped due to the fact that some species of fireflies are poisonous to some species of frogs in real life. They would have glowed in the dark and been two pixels in size, which would have made them the smallest mob in the game. It was officially confirmed that they were scrapped for the 1.19 update in an Ask Mojang episode. It was later implemented in the form of a particle generated by firefly bushes in Java Edition 25w05a, rather than as a mob.

Green axolotl
This mob was seen at Minecraft Live 2020 as part of the axolotl announcement. The mob was presumed to be added in the Caves and Cliffs update, but wasn't added alongside the other axolotl colors shown. They also later appeared in the update trailer despite not actually existing in the game.



			Green axolotl in the update announcement.



			Green axolotl in the update trailer.


Pigman bodyguard
The original pigman texture.
Development of a male mob which may have had no clothes was also mentioned by Nathan Adams in 2012, but this is not currently being worked on. On April 14, 2020, Nathan Adams clarified that the mob was going to be a pigman bodyguard, which was naked by default so that the player could provide armor for it.

Quiver
The quiver was an item briefly present in indev versions of the game while items were being tested. Its texture came from Notch's previous Legend of the Chambered games, and remained in the files for many years afterwards.
During the development of Java Edition 1.9, Dinnerbone posted a 2×204960 image on Twitter which could be reformed into a 854×480 Minecraft screenshot, clearly depicting the quiver as a usable item in the inventory, where it had what seemed to be a dedicated slot alongside a slot for arrows. He shared another screenshot of the quiver in the inventory a few weeks later, with the quiver slot in a different location. On June 30, 2015, Dinnerbone stated that he scrapped quivers as he felt that holding arrows in the off-hand felt "more natural."



			The screenshot which Dinnerbone's 854×480 image decodes to, showing a quiver in its slot in the survival inventory.



			A similar screenshot showing a quiver slot in the creative inventory.


Sculk jaw
This block was seen at Minecraft Live 2020 as part of the deep dark announcement. Walking on it would change its texture, and it is presumed that it would do damage to the player and that it could be broken with the hoe like with other sculk blocks.

The block was presumed to be added in The Wild Update, but kingbdogz revealed that it was unlikely to be added in the final release. In the end it was not added.


			The sculk jaw retracted.



			The sculk jaw protracted.


Red dragon
Main article: Red Dragon
Markus Persson initially mentioned wanting to add dragons. After implementing the ender dragon, he said that he wanted to also add a friendly, red dragon to the Overworld. However, there are no current plans of adding the second dragon.

Underground cabin



This  section  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

This structure was shown during the initial reveal of the deep dark and the warden during Minecraft Live 2020, but was not implemented in the final release of the Wild Update.



			Deep dark structure recreation render.


Mentioned
These features were mentioned at one point, but later abandoned or their current status is unknown. Note that some of these features were mentioned by developers who either no longer work at Mojang Studios, or no longer work on Minecraft.

Mobs
Camouflaging mob
A mob which camouflages with its environment was a concept considered by Jens Bergensten when designing the shulker, which was originally one of the mob's mechanics during development - the mob would camouflage with the surroundings, but due to difficulties with the code and rendering, he decided to abandon this element of the mob. He stated however that it may happen in the future.

Lava zombie and troll
Before the implementation of hostile mobs, Notch stated that he liked the idea of monsters such as lava zombies or troll infestations, which would roam the land and break things. Later, the zombie was implemented.

Prefix mobs
Notch mentioned prefix mobs in a Brocraft stream. He gave examples of mobs such as "Burning Spiders, Giant Zombies, and Cobble Creepers." Some prefix mobs have been added in the form of cave spiders, charged creepers, strays, bogged, husks, drowned, and other mob variants. Giant zombies have technically been added, but are currently unused. In the 3D Shareware April Fools update, the ORDER.txt jokingly mentions "11 new enemy variants including Buff Crepper and Evilshroom II" for a fake game: "MineCraft 3D: Deeper and darker."

Reindeer
Reindeer were another mob acknowledged and suggested initially for Christmas 2015. Minecraft Earth version 0.6.0 added the Jolly Llama, which is supposed to represent a reindeer. It is currently unknown if reindeer will ever be added or not.

Biomes and environment
Cave and underground features
Many features relating to the underground and caves have been mentioned historically, but are yet to be seen in-game. Some suggestions which were approved by Mojang include rainbow crystalline caves and cave maps, considered "an interesting idea" by Notch.

Seasons
Nathan Adams mentioned on Twitter that he was experimenting with adding seasons, and varying the length of day and night according to season. He also mentioned it during Minecon 2013. Seasons may include changes in color of tree leaves and may also be tied to real time. The later released Minecraft Dungeons has a location called Pumpkin Pastures, which resembles an autumn-themed forest biome. Autumn-colored trees also appear in forest biomes in Minecraft Legends.
Autumn-colored trees are announced in the upcoming third drop in the form of the poplar trees.

Nether features
Multiple features relating to the Nether have been proposed and acknowledged, such as utilizing the space above the Nether ceiling for something else, non-rectangular Nether portals, and Nether portals placing players in front if possible.
During the development of the Nether Update, other ideas were discussed, such as dyeable Nether portals, which were dismissed as not being priority by Jeb. As a joke feature in Java Edition 20w14∞, funky portals were added and would change color depending on the text data found in a written book.

Blocks and items
Scarecrows
Scarecrows were mentioned multiple times. In Minecraft: The Story of Mojang, Jeb mentioned the possibility of a scarecrow crafted using a pumpkin, wool block and 3 sticks, which would attract monsters. He brought this up again later in a Reddit comment, stating "The reason I haven't added it already is that the mob AI assumes the target is an entity, and not a world block. I would either have to make the scarecrow an entity, or allow mobs to target blocks."  Armor stands would later be added as a stationary entity with a similar appearance to a scarecrow. Village & Pillage added pillager outposts, which can generate a scarecrow-like target structure. Zombies can pathfind to turtle eggs in order to break them, showing that block targeting is possible to some extent.

Calamari
Jeb stated after the addition of pumpkin pies that "only mutton and calamari are missing", implying mutton and calamari were both planned additions. Mutton was indeed added a few updates later, while squids are yet to drop any form of meat.

Technical
Java Edition
Full split of liquids from blocks

Java Edition 1.13 added waterlogging, marking the start of the separation between liquids and blocks. An in-development screenshot showing water occupying leaves and flowers, referred to as having "no water blocks", was released in 2018. However, water and lava still currently exist as blocks, and so far only water sources can occupy other blocks through the waterlogged block state; flowing water and bubble columns cannot occupy other blocks, and both still and flowing lava cannot occupy other blocks at all.
Having water only occupy one side of a block like a glass pane, but not the other, is also something that has been considered.

Phasing out of NBT-based crafting recipes



This section is missing information about: weren't all of the "special" crafting types properly made data-driven in a recent version? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

In Java Edition 1.14, numerous new blocks were implemented as replacements for certain "complex" crafting recipes, with the replaced crafting recipes relying on NBT data. This included moving inventory tool repair to the grindstone, banner modification to the loom, and map modification to the cartography table. However, several more NBT based crafting recipes still exist (such as fireworks, dyeing leather armor and tipped arrows), and these are planned to be phased out. Certain blocks that may be added in the future to further this goal include a dedicated fireworks customization block.
In Java Edition 1.14.3, tool repair crafting recipes were reimplemented.
Java Edition 1.20.5 adds data components to replace the non-strict item NBT format, all item data is still stored in NBT but uses a stricter way to access the data to keep the data structure consistent.

Shaders
On the feedback site, shaders (resource packs that override the vanilla shaders) were marked as announced, meaning that they were going to be implemented. This feature was partially implemented in 1.16 and 1.17, as resource packs can enable similar effects.
While core shaders can be modified with resource packs, this is not considered a supported feature by Mojang. Different methods to change the game's graphics to the extent that overriding core shaders allows may be implemented at some point.
However, Mojang developers are planning on implementing their new shader pack, Vibrant Visuals, into Java Edition.

Super Fancy graphics
Docm77 confirmed in a tweet that sometime in the future, a new graphics setting will be added to Minecraft called "super fancy". It is unknown whether it is the "Fabulous!" graphics setting added in Java Edition 1.16 Pre-release 1, Vibrant Visuals ​[upcoming], or another new one. The use of Vulkan 1.2 rendering in Java Edition 26.2 may lead toward the Super Fancy graphics. This could also be a reference to the Ray Tracing functionality in Bedrock Edition or the scrapped Super Duper Graphics Pack.

Inventory changes
An inventory rewrite was originally added in the snapshot 14w07a for Java Edition 1.8, but a roadblock was hit and Mojang had to shelve the change before the release of 1.8. Other changes to the inventory have been mentioned, including spectators being able to look at other's inventories, visible health/armor bar on all players, seeing players' GUI when spectating from their POV and the return of shift-double-clicking.

Lua scripting
Lua scripting was a feature mentioned by Notch as a way to create server-side modifications. The server would be able to create custom commands, assign certain server functions to blocks, and create user groups. Players would not have to download scripts within or outside of the client, and therefore no client-side modifications will be necessary. Notch said that he wanted Lua to be an extension for Minecraft, but did not want Lua to turn Minecraft into a game engine.
Lua scripting has been further hinted at by Searge.
Certain plugins such as Spigot or Bukkit support Lua scripting implementation into servers, but these plugins are not created by nor affiliated with Mojang Studios and thus are not an official means in which to implement Lua scripting.
In one of the Blaze3D showcase screenshots, a development version that mentions Lua scripting in it's name can be seen in the world list.

Off-hand changes
Changes with the off-hand slot added in Java Edition 1.9 were planned on being added to Minecraft sometime in the future. Specifically, the player would no longer be able to attack or place blocks with any item in their off-hand slot, similar to Bedrock Edition. However, players would still be able to hold items in the off-hand slot, which still made the off-hand useful for maps and such. Also, blocking would still be able to be activated if the player is holding a shield in their off-hand. However, this regression was later retracted due to massive community backlash.

Workbench (Plugin API)
 For the current implementation of modding API made by the community, see Mod.

The Plugin API, dubbed "Workbench", was a feature that would have allowed mod developers to easily add more content to the game. In contrast to mods, plugins will not require any alteration of the minecraft.jar file itself, although they will also be slightly limited in their feature set. The Bukkit team was to help make the official Plugin API.
Plans for official game customization date back to July 5, 2010, with the Modding API planned after the release of Java Edition Alpha v1.0.1_01. It was then stated to be released in Beta 1.8. The Modding API was then rebranded as the Plugin API, with the release originally stated to be planned for 1.3, then for 1.4, and then it was accidentally stated by Curse that it would be implemented in 1.5.
At MINECON 2012, Mojang shared their vision for the future of the Plugin API. The API was to be developed by the Bukkit team and intended to simplify the modding and downloading process, although containing a slightly limited feature set. After initially publishing a developer website (http://dev.minecraft.net) and GitHub page, these were both taken down within a year.
Developers on numerous occasions have mentioned that many changes made in the game's code were in preparation for the Plugin API, including Nathan Adams on July 29, 2014, Grum at the "The Minecraft Team - Behind the Scenes" panel on July 5, 2015 and Nathan Adams again on October 19, 2015 while working on the loot tables for Java Edition 1.9. A user replied "I think an official "we're working on it" would really help a lot" to which Nathan Adams replied, "We're working on it." Since then, no further developments have been made regarding Plugin API.

Switching from OpenGL to Vulkan
In order to continue supporting macOS and bring Vibrant Visuals to Java Edition, switching the graphics API from OpenGL to Vulkan was planned for sometime over Jun–Aug 2026.

Bedrock Edition



These features are exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

RTX
As of latest mentions on March 31, 2022, there are currently no plans of adding ray tracing support for Xbox Series X|S.

World generation
The Far Biome.
Unimplemented waves effect.
Unimplemented 3D grass effect.
There have been a number of mentioned changes to world generation from the developers. Tommaso had planned a Far biome, which likely would have resembled a motivated alteration of the Far Lands, potentially made into its own stand-alone biome. This would be found at the edge of infinite worlds, and was going to be implemented in 0.9.0. For unknown reasons, it was indefinitely delayed. Tommaso also proposed a unique underworld/underground structure, as well as a dream dimension. However, none of these ideas (with the exception of the "unique underground structure", later added as the ancient city) came to fruition.
Tommaso stated on Reddit that he would like to add a numerical "difficulty" value that mobs could have depending on their circumstances (spawn conditions, weather, etc.). This would vary the amount of hostile mobs at night and the amount of resources gained from each biome. He also stated that he would like more biome-specific mobs as well as biomes with specific difficulty/mob distributions (something which has been partially implemented with more biome-specific mobs added over the last couple updates).
He also experimented with several other unimplemented world-gen related features which were either not implemented or else only implemented much later, such as much larger caves, waves in water, short 3D grass on top of grass blocks, and worlds over 400 blocks tall.
Many of these ideas were reiterated again at MINECON 2016, where the developers stated they could either port the world generation changes from PC (added in Caves & Cliffs) or create a new world generation altogether. They posed that this new world generation system could operate with its own form of "progression system," wherein which harder/more complex biomes generate further from spawn. Other new generation features might have included more space underground (later added in Caves & Cliffs), a rise in the sea level to Y=96, and terrain alterations which would make generated terrain less predictable (also added in Caves & Cliffs).
Since the world generation got completely overhauled in Bedrock Edition 1.18.0 (for the first time since Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha), and with the new caves, terrain port from Java Edition, and the addition of ancient cities, four of the aforementioned changes were/are officially added into the game, with one being only partially implemented (more biome-specific mobs).

Interface/controls
At MINECON 2016, the developers mentioned potential future improvements to the controls. This would have made the input system vector-based, allowing full mouse support on Android (added in 1.17.0) and having better built-in controller support.
In addition, at a previous panel, they also mentioned the ability to remap the "long touch" input to "hardness-based" touch (3D Touch) for capable iPhones. In other words, the input wouldn't be based on touch duration, but rather on touch intensity.
In a Twitch stream previewing the Nintendo Switch version, the developers mentioned that they would like to look into adding motion-controlled aiming, but currently have no plans to add it. This kind of feature would theoretically only function on devices supporting gyro-based controls, a qualification which would make it a natural addition to a platform like Nintendo Switch, but not several others. Development on this kind of feature is likely suspended due to a lack of clear way to make it cross-compatible.
Bluetooth keyboard and mouse support was added to iOS and iPadOS devices in 1.19.10.

Other world sizes
Tommaso stated on Reddit that they may make other limited world sizes available, in addition to the Old world type (256×256). Mentioned world sizes were 1000×1000 and 10000×10000. The addition of different world sizes was again mentioned at MINECON 2016.

Loading external files on console
Roger Carpenter talked about this in a stream of the 1.2 beta for Xbox One. They would like for the console versions to support the loading of files from external media such as a USB stick. This would allow the use of Add-Ons, custom worlds, skins and resource packs, etcetera, like on the other platforms. However, console companies are worried about "security issues" that this could cause. Other games that loaded content from external media have sometimes been exploited by hackers to run unauthorized code on consoles. If loading add-ons from external media is not an option, they would "work it out some other way". (Partially added with full add-on and behavior packs support for Xbox One)

Brief mentions
These features were briefly mentioned, but no further information was given after its mention.

General features
More dimensions.
Partially implemented: More rare structures and terrain changes.
Mentioned in 2009
In early development, Markus Persson mentioned two more gamemodes, Team Survival Mode and Fortress Mode, which would include the ability to play Capture the Flag.
Additionally, difficulty modes were mentioned on of which were: "Walk in the Park" being the easiest, "Easy" which was added, and "Armageddon" being difficult even with 32 people.
Partially implemented: Cobweb blocks being created by spiders.
This functionality appears as an attack in Minecraft Dungeons.
Similar functionality is possible if a spider or cave spider is killed while afflicted with the Weaving status effect.
Mentioned in 2010
Recreation of what swinging doors could have looked like.
Notch briefly considered adding a "white eyed creepy mob" in response to the popularity of Herobrine.
Animated swinging doors.
Partially implemented: Megabeasts were mentioned as a potential addition for late-game challenges along with ill omens followed by "a night of absolute horror". Ideas of ill omens were flickering torches and a big red eye appearing on the moon which would look around.
The ender dragon was introduced in the Adventure Update, followed by the Wither, while the Bad Omen effect was added in Village & Pillage and expanded in Tricky Trials. The darkness effect is also similar to the idea of torches flickering.
A realism slider for difficulty.
Colliding clouds.
Server portals.
"Clan" mode. Most likely the same as Team Survival mode mentioned in 2009.
Server-side scripting.
Land claim flags: planting a flag (possibly costs gold in Survival mode) claims an area of land. No monsters can spawn or die from age in that area, and only selected players can build in that area.
Partially implemented: Smoke block: would be generated by fire, be passable, cast shadows, float upward and disappear after a short time.
Village & Pillage added campfires, which generate smoke particles similar to what was mentioned, but they are not blocks and do not cast shadows.
Gravity; all blocks except possibly obsidian would be affected by gravity. Floating islands would need obsidian blobs to stay afloat. Markus Persson later stated that he disliked the idea.
In-game anti-cheat; make the server check for flying, no-clip and increased speed. Add those options to the client, but only enable if the server says it's okay.
Partially implemented: Make moss grow on rock (likely means that mossy cobblestone would spread to cobblestone).
In 1.17, glow lichen was introduced which functions similarly to the idea growing on stone in caves and spreading with bone meal.
Herobrine.
At first Notch said on August 30th, "there's no white eyed creepy mob like that - but I TOTALLY should add one now."
Two days later on September 1st he replied to another user on Twitter who asked if Herobrine was in the game and said, "It's not real. =) But it might be soon!"
In October, Kizzycocoa, who was a wiki administrator at the time asked Notch over IRC if Herobrine would be added. Notch's response was, "i have no plans of adding herobrine as is, but I do like the rumors, haha." The "as is" part of the sentence caused confusion, so, Kizzycocoa asked Notch on Twitter for a direct answer. Notch said, "i have no plans of adding herobrine."
On August 22, 2012, Kizzycocoa asked Dinnerbone if Herobrine would ever be added to the game. Dinnerbone's response was, "We have no plans at all to add herobrine. I doubt this will ever change."
Mojang stated on the feedback website that creepypastas will no longer be added to the game.
For clarification, the Enderman is based on the Slender Man creepypasta. This is the only mob related to a creepypasta that was ever added to the game.
Omelettes and cheese.
Whales
Partially implemented: Friendly/evil goblins in villages.
Villages are now inhabited by friendly villagers, which have hostile counterparts such as zombie villagers and the illager mob category.
Furniture.
Mojang has said they will not add furniture to the game because it inhibits natural creativity.
Jeb has since stated that the previously considered suggestions page isn't always correct anymore.
Floodgates.
Light level at night being affected by moon phase.
Clouds as entities with shadows.
Partially implemented: Teleporters.
Using ender pearls, it is possible to construct rudimentary teleporters.
Teleporters can also be made with command blocks, but not in Survival.
Mentioned in 2011
The ability to choose what work saves to the level files.
Hand-drawn signs.
"Stone chunks", which would be obtained by smelting gravel and would be used to craft stone bricks.
Partially implemented: Exploding arrows by bows.
The crossbow can fire explosive fireworks.
Mentioned in 2012
Giant spiders in a village.
Partially implemented: Giant spiders.
Giant spiders can be created with attributes.
Vertical redstone.
Combat music that would play while battling hostile mobs (except for the creeper), and music that would play in villages.
Ability to pause the game in multiplayer, but only for operators. Users will then get to chat until the game is back.
Minecarts usable as boats.
More colors and texture pack customizations of maps.
Partially implemented: Flower pots breaking when hit by arrows.
This has been added for decorated pots.
Mentioned in 2013

Nathan Adams's minecart with dispenser screenshot.
A minecart with dispenser.
Minecart with dispenser.
The image may have just been showcasing the custom tile displays in minecarts which were added in the next snapshot, 13w02a.
Nathan Adams's original demonstration of the .mcmeta format for resource packs contained a sample properties file for fonts to determine character size and spacing. Despite the game code containing the code to read the files, it never actually uses them leaving character width and spacing to be determined dynamically. Partially implemented in 22w11a and 23w17a with the technical changes for fonts.
Partially Implemented: Enchanted items apply attributes on use.
Original tweet's goal was implemented with the addition of slowness inflicted from Bane of Arthropods, enchantments applying attributes more generally was implemented with the addition of data driven enchantments.
Adding more places to display scoreboard scores.
A better UI for server admins/ops, inspired by the Twitch user moderation menu.
Better construction analysis.
Partially implemented: A new system that could alter weapon behavior.
This has been partially implemented in Java Edition 15w34a with the implementation of attack speed. This may also be worked on in the Combat Tests.
Portable light (e.g. holding a torch in the hand which provides light).
Mojang said that they would not add this due to its impact on gameplay.
Jeb has since stated that the previously considered suggestions page isn't always correct anymore.
Blocks of charcoal, mentioned as something that would need to be implemented as to not complicate the existence of blocks of coal.
Smelting red sand into red glass.
Mentioned in 2014
Unimplemented red glass smelting recipe.
Screenshot of the cloud height slider.
Ryan Holtz originally mentioned adding a slider for cloud height, though he later stated the idea was controversial among the team so he scrapped it.
Improved camera controls.
Nathan Adams has stated he has an "Ultimate Plan" with endermites that might include the dragon egg.
Rewriting the key bind system.
Building a custom sound system.
Multithreaded terrain generation rendering.
Fixes to chunk loading.
Partially implemented: Another rabbit skin.
Partially implemented in Minecraft Earth, with a variety of rabbits being introduced, such as the harelequin rabbit.
Using the killer bunny killing mobs for something.
Temples in badlands.
OAuth.
Being able to make the world border's center slowly move.
Toggling noclip in Spectator mode.
Mentioned in 2015
A carrot on a stick's carrot texture changing with its durability.
A carrot on a stick with further degraded durability and carrot.
Corn.
Partially implemented: In-game lore.
Implemented in the April Fools' update Java Edition 20w14∞, where books written by "§kDeepest Lore" would appear in End Ship chests, containing short, obfuscated and unserious "orders".
While the game avoids directly expositing lore, many features are also created with the intent of furthering the game's in-universe mythology and world building.
Making it so shields are used to block attacks from the side the shield is held on.
Partially implemented: Giving /clone the ability to rotate and mirror structures. Structure blocks were later given the ability to rotate structures.
Improvements to the GUI. These would allow the glowing effect to be seen on the inventory player model.
Minecraft for Google Cardboard.
Partially implemented: Wizards, but not spell-casting.
The evoker and illusioner fulfill a similar role to wizards.
Smoother auto-jump/auto-climb
Carrot on a Stick texture changing as its durability decreases. This can be done with resource packs.
Mentioned in 2016
Village in a swamp with cobblestone roads.
Partially implemented: Villages generated on swamp biomes with cobblestone roads
While swamp villages themselves do not exist yet, villagers do have a skin exclusive to the swamp.
Phasing out the minecart with furnace.
New musician villager that trades note blocks, jukeboxes, and music discs.
A Dragon Head banner pattern.
If a piston gets powered and is unable to push, showing a smoke particle effect and playing a small "clunk" sound.
If the bow used to craft a dispenser is enchanted, making the arrows fired from the dispenser to act accordingly.
Mentioned in 2017
Ability to edit the skybox colors in resource packs
A set of prismarine blocks with a color scheme matching that of the elder guardian, similarly to how regular prismarine imitates normal guardians.
Devices in caves playing ominous music.
Mentioned in 2018
Nether pearls
A portal that would teleport the player to a different place in the Overworld.
A special block for crafting fireworks.
Partially implemented: Mob spawning will be more balanced.
As of 1.18, hostile mobs only spawn when the block light level is 0.
Partially implemented: On Minecraft Feedback Mojang announced that they would implement the idea for making hopper and chest minecarts able to ride boats. The idea was to make it easier to transport items across water.
The boat with chest was added in Java Edition 22w12a, which allowed chests to be combined with boats for easy item transport through water.
Mentioned in 2019
A unique crawling animation.
Illusioners in raids.
Partially implemented: Nether portal like thing that will teleport the player to the Moon or Mars.
The Moon appeared as a dimension in Java Edition 23w13a_or_b.
Mentioned in 2020
Partially implemented: Nether boats, presumably made out of the new wood or netherite to use in lava.
Striders serve a similar purpose.
Obsidian boats were added as a joke in snapshot 15w14a and are resistant to lava and fire.
Mojang said that boats which can be used in lava will never be implemented because Striders perform the same function.
Soul fire blazes.
A similar idea appears in Minecraft: The Manga, in the form of the Blue-Flame Blaze.
Mentioned in 2021
Glow worms.
Rivers flowing from high to low elevations.
Warm river biomes with no rain.
Mobs only becoming persistent when picking up items that are dropped by players, droppers or dispensers.
Partially implemented: Moss layers that can be placed on other blocks to make them mossy.
A similar mechanic was added with pale moss carpets.
Terracotta and concrete stairs and slabs.​[upcoming: JE 26.3]
Ice caves.
Mentioned in 2022
Developer concept for stacked cakes.
Revamped combat.
Wither-proof moveable blocks.
Snails.
Making red mushrooms poisonous, to reflect the real-life mushroom they're based on.
Stacked cakes.
Sloths.
Mentioned in 2023
Improved furnace minecarts.
More ways to obtain the Mending enchantment.
More unique potion textures.
Mentioned in 2024
Developer concept for a remodeled dragon egg.
Dragon egg remodel.
Vaults in other structures.
Mentioned in 2025
Improvements to the End.
A minecart update.
Partially implemented: Improvements to Java Edition multiplayer.
A friends list and peer-to-peer multiplayer was added in Java Edition 26.2 Snapshot 7. Peer-to-peer was removed before the version came out, in 26.2-pre1
Mentioned in 2026
Improved phantoms.
A developer screenshot was shown of a player taking the book off an enchanting table and holding it.
Mistakes
Developer screenshot with sand layers in the background.
Sometimes the staff at Mojang make minor mistakes, and the community interprets these mistakes as sneaky teasers or easter eggs. Some examples are:

Bluestone dust, in the Village & Pillage: Official Trailer.
Sand layers, in a developer screenshot.
Blue berries, in the 1st trailer for The Copper Age.
Joke features
Mojang Studios employees have frequently joked about adding various features to the game.

Searge jokingly stated that due to the fact that people didn't dislike the changes in the 15w42a snapshot, he would add a fuel requirement to crafting tables.
Koalas in tanks riding on planes with laser rifles was jokingly added to the "maybe later" list by Searge.
Hot dogs.
Herobrine. Almost every new major Minecraft update includes the phrase "removed Herobrine" in its changelog, despite Herobrine never being implemented. This has also appeared in the changelog for Scrolls version 0.103.0.
When Hardcore mode was announced, a joke screenshot of "Ultra Hardcore Mode" was shown, where death would revoke an account's premium status.
"Ultra Hardcore" mode.
Beavers.
Hamsters.
Jens Bergensten joked about adding chips if 100% of the community agreed on what type the chips would be.
Jens Bergensten joked about adding more types of dragons. In response, MissMarzenia joked "DRAGONS CONFIRMED."
Marc joked about adding Top Hats for 1.4. Several top hat options would eventually be added to the character creator.
Partially implemented: A snapshot named 12marc40awesome containing various joke features such as volcanoes, more dragons, coral, fish, and fish blocks. Partially added in Java Edition 1.13 with fish and corals.
Snapshot 12marc40awesome, a joke snapshot by Marc Watson.
Pine cones.
Nathan Adams joked about adding dwarves when asked about it.
A texture known in the game files as "skis.png", was added in the Christmas/New Year update. Its textures were added by Nathan Adams as a red herring.

Skis texture.

SethBling mentioned a downside of command blocks on one of his livestreams, and Nathan Adams joked about removing command blocks to accommodate him.
Nathan Adams joked that Minecraft pizza would be a good idea to add, and as a joke KrisJelbring stated that pizza is confirmed to be added.
After the announcement of pillagers (over a year before the actual announcement of Village & Pillage), Nathan Adams and Jeb joked about several more villager portmanteaus:
Drillager: he comes and pokes holes in things.
Fillager: he fixes the previous guys stuff.
Thrillager: really likes heights and scary things.
Killager: but we kind of already have that.
Spillager: prevents you from drinking potions.
Stillager: just stands around blocking important doorways.
Millager: the only hard working one of the bunch.
Krillager: Swims around and gets eaten by whales
Henrik Kniberg showcased dancing hoglins on Twitter while implementing such a dance for piglins for Bedrock parity. The hoglin dance was a blooper that will not be implemented.
Xilefian joked about adding Worcestershire sauce to Minecraft if people told him what the best foods to pour Worcestershire sauce on are.
Block of Eternal Screaming, showcased in video series such as Ten Things You Probably Didn't Know About Minecraft.
Mobbo, a joke mob shown in several episodes of the How We Make Minecraft series on Minecraft's YouTube channel. Due to their popularity, they were implemented as a hero in Minecraft Dungeons.
In the episode Blocks of Ten Things You Probably Didn't Know About Minecraft, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. jokingly refers to Village & Pillage as the "Lecterns and Lecterns Update," for it added the lectern block. Another episode, Items, references a "Plagues [sic] Update" as an alternative name for Buzzy Bees.
Within the episode Updates That Nearly Broke Us of The Secrets of Minecraft, an update themed to M.A.R.I.L.L.A. is frequently joked about, as well as a "Forever Alone Update" instead of Better Together, and several more in succession. These include the Super Mine Kart Update, the Circles Update, and again the M.A.R.I.L.L.A. Update, referred to by Narrator as "The Martha Update."
The following episode mentions a "Dust and Nothing Update."
During Around the Minecraft World in 80 Biomes, it was joked that sunflower plains were added to preserve the game's ecosystem, as opposed to the "TNT Plains biome."
Bananas, barbecue bananas and a washing machine block were joked about being added to the game in a tweet chain by kingbdogz and Xilefian.
Hydraulic excavator mech suits were joked about being added by Xilefian. He said it could have lasers, fly with jet engines, make lots of noise, have a holographic HUD that tells the player where to dig for diamonds, gives the player +400% health, and powered by rabbits' feet to keep it balanced.
During the development of 1.19, kingbdogz joked about that wardens would ask the player really, really nicely for it to get down and then they would offer some tea and invite it over for some cake.
On the topic of the brush crafting recipe, Chi joked about adding "tickling" to Minecraft.
The Dust and Rust Update was a joke name for the 1.20 update proposed and disapproved in Minecraft Monthly.
In one episode, Vu Bui jokes about a Baby Vu mob being added in Tiny Takeover, which he has to assure multiple times is just a gag. Later in the video, there is another joke about him pitching an invincible mob called the "Dandelor," created by feeding a lamb a golden dandelion.
Duncan Geere mentioned on Minecraft.net article ‘Mob Menagerie: Copper Golem’ that he would like to add a ‘honeycomb golem that harvests hives automatically’. This could be meaning collecting honeycomb/honey bottles, or it could even be hive mining.
See also
Minecraft Earth mentioned features
Exclusive features
Removed features
Unused features
References

 "They have yea, it basically looks like the current one we have"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), April 21, 2026

 "It looks like this with all the extra screens, but keep in mind it likely is broken because it has not been updated for a long time. (Note: Don't upload to minecraft wiki, broken screens there will cause confusion)"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), June 23, 2026

 "Updated recipe book and crafting table screens in OreUI."  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), June  9, 2026

 "The textures are all named like that, so i just made a guess they would use that string"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), June  9, 2026

 "Furnace screen in OreUI has recived some major updates"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), December  3, 2025

 "New OreUI smoker and blast furnace screens (first image smoker other blast furnace)"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), March 10, 2026

 "Recipe book and anvil have gotten their own input field textures in OreUI."  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), June 23, 2026

 "New inventory, dropper/dispenser and hopper OreUI screens."  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), September  4, 2025

 "New OreUI bundle screens (4 slots is an placeholder)"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), March 25, 2026

 "OreUI versions of the container screens"  – @xKingDarkYT  on X (formerly Twitter), December 28, 2024

 "New OreUI copper chests in #minecraft. Go in order from least to most oxidised"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), March 31, 2026

 "New OreUI dyed shulker screens in #minecraft. First is undyed, then red, green, blue. Replies will also have white and black"  – @nipitare_  on X (formerly Twitter), March 31, 2026

 "Easter Eggs Behind The...Sick Villagers?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 27, 2024

  "It will not be like last year where one biome gets updated but the rest don't- instead the vote is just choosing which biome will get updated first but all of those biomes will get updated." – u/HelenAngel on Reddit, September 17, 2018

 "We haven't forgot about them :)"  – @_LadyAgnes (Agnes Larsson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 17, 2019[dead link]

 "Evolving Vibrant Visuals for Bedrock Edition"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, November 7, 2025.

 "Minecraft FACTS: Big list of what Notch has ACTUALLY said."     by Obsidian Miner  – Minecraft Forum, October 4, 2010.

 https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360005029872-Previously-Considered-Suggestions

 "MINECRAFTCON 2010 WHICH ONE FOR FRIDAY? less than 9 hours"     by Diamond Miner  – Minecraft Forum, July 16, 2010.

 "who knows what the future may hold."  – @The_T_Pearson  on X (formerly Twitter), March 11, 2018

 "Mojang's most judgemental cat has seen your photos – and wants MORE! There's still two weeks to enter our CAT CONTEST and get your fabulous feline into Minecraft PAWEVER! Er, we mean, FOREVER!↣ https://redsto.ne/minecat  ↢"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), November  5, 2018

 "Jellie, Zach, and Coco – these are the three final felines that remain in our CAT CONTEST! 😻"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), November 16, 2018

 "Which cat do you want to see added to Minecraft? Cast your vote!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), November 16, 2018

 "After a fierce feline competition, we finally have a winner in the #Minecraftcatcontest! Congratulations Jellie, you adorable little furball. You’re heading to Minecraft!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), November 19, 2018

 "My list on tile types so far"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, May 21, 2009.

 "I want to add them, I'm just not sure how they'd look or function that best suits the game"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 28, 2012

 "... and this is why I'm playing with Testificates: http://i.imgur.com/Z113y.png (work in progress, as usual)"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), May 21, 2012

 https://imgur.com/Z113y.png

 "I've been adding a bunch of new flowers to #minecraft. One of them is the pink Paeonia, as it was the main flower for our wedding" – @jebkhaile, August 16, 2013

 "@Sean_MCPE they'll be bigger and I think will require 5 logs instead of 5 planks, plus a Paddle item."  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), September 19, 2014

 "@LarryBi63052484 I think in the end it will be a Paddles item or something, but yes, it's needed to move at all."  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), September 19, 2014

 "One thing I'd really love to add into Minecraft is special weapons/tools you can find exploring or trading, that aren't normally obtainable."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 3, 2014

 "Like a bow that has faster drawback, for example. But the attribute system needs so much work first!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 3, 2014

 "That's what I'm thinking, finding boots that increase (or maybe even decrease!) health - special and unique stuff"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 3, 2014

 "The idea is these kind of things will be passive "buffs" that things can give you"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 3, 2014

 "My vision for survival"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, June 14, 2009.

 https://www.reddit.com/user/sliced_lime/comments/gzpo5p/some_words_on_things_in_116/

 "And because PC Gamer made such a big deal of the sky dimension, I guess I'll have to finish it. Consider it confirmed."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), May 19, 2011

 "Notch Answers Minecraft 1.8 Questions - Community Questions for Markus (Notch) Persson"  – OmniTechNews on YouTube, September 1, 2011

 "It has been rebranded to be The End realm"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), October 12, 2011

 "Probably, yes. :D I love the idea. The Ether mod does it great, try it."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), November 10, 2011

 "No we don't plan to return the Sky Dimension"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), July 2, 2012

 "We have no plans to revisit the skylands"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), July 3, 2012

 "Ask Mojang: What happened to the fireflies in Minecraft 1.19?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, May 10, 2022

 "Meet the Llama"     – Minecraft.net, April 18, 2017.

 "A friend is in urgent need of your help to settle this matter"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), July 26, 2016

 https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/27ibll/mogminer_infinity_years_until_cubic_chunks/ci1c6q0/

 https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/kq89v/cubic_chunks_increases_the_performance_of_the/c2me2bz/

 "Minecraft Snapshot 19w11b"     – Minecraft.net, March 12, 2019.

 "Not in 1.15 and I can't promise anything for 1.16 either I'm afraid."  – @MiaLem_n (Maria Lemón) on X (formerly Twitter), September 30, 2019

 "No. We will not be adding functionality to the fletching table in 1.16"  – @HelenAngel  on X (formerly Twitter), April 18, 2020

 "Minecraft Now: Frog February!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, February 10, 2022

 "Coding some new mobstuffs. This is hilarious. He has no clothes! :("  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 13, 2012

 "Working on a very old but popular minecraft suggestion that keeps popping up every so often; I put my new mob on hold for now."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 14, 2012

 "@123sendodo No. I've shelved that mob for now."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 14, 2012

 "It was going to be a type of pigman that you could convince to fight for you, like a bodyguard. The reason it had no clothes was that I wanted the player to be responsible for what it wore and what weapons it used, but that logically meant naked mob by default :D"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 14, 2020

 "The following picture is meaningless and is probably not even worth your time clicking on it."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 4, 2015

  "It's not meaningless." – (now deleted) u/FiredPlayer (now deleted) on Reddit, May 4, 2015

 "I also had to rearrange the Creative inventory a little, too, to make the new slots fit. I don't think it's too bad."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 22, 2015

 "I'm removing quivers again. Arrows in off-hand feels more natural."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), June 30, 2015

 "Sculk Trap (which is actually called Sculk Jaw) is unlikely to make it into the game, wasn't very happy with its design Sculk Shrieker is a completely different block"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), August 29, 2021

 "MINECON 2015 Upcoming Features" – Minecraft, July 30, 2015 – via YouTube

 "Minecraft (alpha)"     – Tigsource, June 17, 2009.

  "Next xmas?" – u/jeb_ on Reddit, December 14, 2014

 "Rainbow Crystalline Caves and how"  (archived)   – Mojang Get Satisfaction, February 7, 2011.

 "@OhHaiMe It will not update if you leave the map area. It only maps the top level now, but cave maps is an interesting idea.."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), April 27, 2011

 "Here's one thing I've been tinkering with but not added yet: Minecraft day cycles (potentially seasons). 500 days in a year, shorter nights?"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 15, 2013

 "It was never said to be for 1.6 :)"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 19, 2013

 https://www.twitch.tv/videos/38120314&t=06h17m17s

 "@crash_nick Likely not, but I was considering reusing that space for something else!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 26, 2012

 "This feels too cliche..."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 10, 2013

 "For 1.8.4 this will be fixed just by keeping the player in the portal block, but this is not ideal and it should make sure we can place them outside if it's a "preferable" spot (ie: not a drop into lava). This will be fixed fully in a later release." – Dinnerbone, April 17, 2015

 "We are not planning to add that"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), February 14, 2020

 "(Official) Minecraft: The Story of Mojang (Pt. 2/2) - Proof of Concept for Feature-Length"  – 2PlayerProductions on YouTube, February 20, 2011 – February 20, 2011

 https://www.reddit.com/comments/fgogh/_/c1fth3u/

 "After this I think only mutton and calamari are missing: http://i.imgur.com/6jd6q.png"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 11, 2012

 "I should start a blooper twitter account. In other news, there is no "minecraft:water" blocks in this world - and that's why trees and flowers are taking a bath."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 24, 2018

 Replying to "will you be able to place water in only 1 side/quarter of glass panes?": "One day, maybe! Not right now though sorry."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 8, 2018

 "We actually already have ideas for a block like this, but it's not likely to be done for this update sorry! We're trying to move all "complex" recipes out of the crafting table and into a specialized mechanic, as it's basically impossible to teach players about banner patterns or fireworks charges. Thanks for the ideas! <3"     by /u/Dinnerbone  – Reddit, October 28, 2018.

 https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w34a

 "There will be a new grafics setting in Minecraft. There will be a "fancy" and "super fancy" setting. Also the combat system will get an overhaul. #MinecraftCreatorSummit2018"  – @docm77  on X (formerly Twitter), May 30, 2018

  "We never finished that. We hit a roadblock with the inventory rewrite, and had to shelve it because we couldn't figure out how to proceed nicely." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, April 9, 2015

 "I'll add that, but no promises it'll be done for this weeks snapshot"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), January 29, 2014

 "Okay, I decided not to do "spectating through other players eyes shows you their UI" because that's a little hard right now. :("  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), January 29, 2014

 "Yeah, that should be trivial to add in properly now!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), February 12, 2014

  "It's a pain in the ass to test though! Rather pushing the limits of what we're mocking sofar, planned to implement for tomorrow :)" – u/_Grum on Reddit, February 12, 2014

 "Throwing in many more hours, and survival mode plans"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, July 13, 2009.

 "I'm also excited to show the first update to our world selection screen. It didn't feel well integrated with the main menu before, so that's now fixed. "  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), July 11, 2019

  "Hey guys, I came second in the Minecon Earth costume contest. I was able to ask jeb_ some questions about 1.14 and Minecon. Heres his answers!" – u/Retro28 on Reddit, November 18, 2017

 "Re-decided on the whole "mods" vs "plugins" thing. Again. It's really definite this time; it's probably still "plugins"!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 27, 2012

 "The Future of Minecraft: what lies ahead for the all-conquering sandbox game?"     by Marsh Davies  – PC Gamer, November 11, 2012.

 "The big issue I have with calling them mods is that there will still be actual mods modifying the game files, not really compatible."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 27, 2012

 Modding API: Modding API

 Modding API: Bukkit Developing API

 Server scripting

 Back in the office, and some words on 1.7 and 1.8!

 "Re-decided on the whole "mods" vs "plugins" thing. Again. It's really definite this time; it's probably still "plugins"!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 27, 2012

 "The Future of Minecraft: what lies ahead for the all-conquering sandbox game?" – PC Gamer, November 11, 2012

 "No"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 13, 2012

 "I'm not sure where people are getting this from, but we never said that the API is in 1.5 in either of our panels (1.5 one or API one)"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), November 25, 2012

 https://youtube.com/watch?v=1uTl3aWEvEA

 "Still working on that command library, today I'm trying to tackle automatic help/usage generation. But first, test cases. So many test cases"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), October 8, 2014

 "The idea is that it would take care of autocomplete, parsing, error handling, usage generation etc for you. Ultimately for the API,of course"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2014

 "Been working on this for the past 2 weeks, it's a command registration, dispatching and handling system."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 29, 2014

 "Re-re-discussing the naming. What do you guys think it should be? "Mod" or "Plugin" - this being something that you just drop into a folder."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 27, 2012

 Modding API: Curse Interview with Jeb (Part 1)

 Modding API: Curse Interview with Jeb (Part 2)

 "The big issue I have with calling them mods is that there will still be actual mods modifying the game files, not really compatible."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 27, 2012

 "Good idea. Fortunately, almost everything I've been doing for the past few years is for the plugin API :)"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), July 29, 2014

 "MINECON 2015 The Minecraft Team: Behind the Scenes"  – Minecraft on YouTube, August 10, 2015

 "And all I'm saying is that these very things that make the game so much easier to modify are *huge* steps towards an API."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), October 19, 2015

 "I think an official "we're working on it" would really help a lot."  – @FrozenDroid  on X (formerly Twitter), October 19, 2015

 "We're working on it."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), October 19, 2015

 "Another step towards Vibrant Visuals"     – Minecraft.net, February 18, 2026.

 "The previous Minecraft Preview build available to Xbox Insiders inadvertently included prototype code for raytracing support on Xbox consoles. This early prototype code has been removed from Preview and doesn't signal near future plans to bring raytracing support to consoles."  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), March 31, 2022

 https://reddit.com/r/MCPE/comments/1v8ooc/whats_happening_with_old_biomes_in_090/ceq11d2?context=1

 "Pocket Edition Future MINECON 2013 Panel"  – Minecraft on YouTube, December 17, 2013

 "Actually, as we're short on time, we might add the limit in 0.9.1 and for the time being you have to live with endless worlds :P"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), May 2, 2014

 "My MCPE todo list used to be sorted by version, now it's just the features I'd like to have from "soon" to "maybe"!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), September 5, 2014

 "Meanwhile, have this screenshot of my far lands experiment!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), July 14, 2014

 "I think it's pretty cool, those huge "underworlds" are scary & buildable :) But we have no time to polish them, so perhaps 9.1!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), March 14, 2014

 "Minecraft: Pocket Edition & Minecraft: Windows 10 Edition Q&A"  – Mojang on Twitch, October 7, 2015

 https://reddit.com/r/MCPE/comments/24vm8t/twitter_tomcc_minersneo_id_like_to_level_up_mobs/chb6qtr?context=1

 "We’ll be at the GDC in San Francisco for a week! Yeah, it means no updates sadly… so have pic of a friday experiment!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), March 14, 2014

 "I was wondering why there were no mobs around in the overworld at night... I guess I've found them!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), April 1, 2014

 "Rule #1 of writing shaders: you must make a water shader. The waves are kinda cool, very unminecrafty though,"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), August 26, 2014

 "Uhm, this came up this last hour but as usual looks like a mod. To the revert machine!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), December 3, 2014

 "Gee golly, sure it is windy on top of my 391 blocks-high tower"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), April 22, 2016

 https://youtube.com/watch?v=ILG2fSzunJ0 ​[more information needed] October 21, 2016

 https://www.twitch.tv/videos/233472107

 https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/6465669193997-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-19-10-20

 https://reddit.com/r/MCPE/comments/1wxgjz/what_will_the_limited_world_sizes_be/cf7tylf?context=1

 https://mixer.com/Minecraft?vod=6632210

 "#PlayItForward Podcast: Ep06 - Dinnerbone" – PlayItForward, April 17, 2014 – via YouTube

  "I would also like to see this. Terrain changes & big structures are hard though. On my big virtual to-do list is a way to make them easier to do." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, December 18, 2013

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, May 17, 2009

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, May 21, 2009

 "New enemy type. The idea is that these will produce web tiles."  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, October 23, 2009.

 "Lo and behold, now I need larger blocks"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, June 3, 2010.

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, August 08, 2010

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, August 08, 2010

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, August 08, 2010

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, August 08, 2010

 "Minecraft (alpha)" – Notch, November 11, 2010

  "I have to say that this is amazing. It would be relatively trivial to add almost immediately, but blocks of clouds would pop in and out of existence if I did it the simple way. I will draw inspiration from this. Thank you, submitter." – u/xNotch on Reddit, November 18, 2010

  "That's cool, but it wouldn't really work well with unloaded chunks. Not without weird artifacts and things popping in when you move around, or a pile of hacks that fake all of that. You need to have the chunks with those mountains loaded to know where a 'rain shadow' is accurately.If the whole world was loaded at all times, this would be easy. A lot of the limitations of Minecraft stem from having to deal with a chunked, dynamically loaded/unloaded world. Everything needs to be very 'local', because there's no global information." – u/peterix on Reddit, October 22, 2018

 "Server Portal"  (archived)   – Mojang Get Satisfaction, November 29, 2010.

 "Public To-Do List for Notch"  (archived)   – Toodledo.com.

 "@BIindRob no, I've stopped liking that idea. Not sure why."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 20, 2010

 Minecraft IRC Logs, Adura.7z, 2010-08-30_#minecraft.log

 "MinecraftCon 2010"  – Miles Smith on YouTube, September 1, 2010

 "It's not real. =) But it might be soon!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 1, 2010

 "It's not real. =) But it might be soon!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 1, 2010

 "@Kizzycocoa i have no plans of adding herobrine."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 19, 2010

 "@Kizzycocoa We have no plans at all to add herobrine. I doubt this will ever change."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 22, 2012

 https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360005029872-Previously-Considered-Suggestions

 https://www.engadget.com/2011-07-30-the-endermen-are-coming-for-you-in-minecraft-mob-update.html

 https://reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/j09ma/notch_posts_images_of_new_mob/c282dzr?context=1

 https://bsky.app/profile/jebox.bsky.social/post/3mctny6qwjs2h

 "The web server is struggling, we’re migrating"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, January 18, 2011.

 "The maps!"  (archived)   by Notch  – Tumblr, April 27, 2011.

 "@berky21 Sure, maybe something like that!"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), December  6, 2011

 "{{{title}}}"     by Notch, November 22, 2011.

 "@Jeb_ Do something that will amaze me, I'm bored."  – @Varcarus  on X (formerly Twitter), February 10, 2012"@Mathew9R http://i.imgur.com/2qQon.png"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), February 10, 2012

  "I haven't looked at this yet. I'm afraid it will add a lot of complexity to the redstone code, but it's definitely doable. It's one of those "later" things." – u/jeb_ on Reddit, April 4, 2012

 "Minecraft Monday Show - Sneak Peek - *New* Minecraft Music"  – Bebop Vox on YouTube, April 6, 2012

 "*If* we add it for multiplayer, it'd probably be an op-only /pause with an optional automatic pause when everyone's in a menu."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 4, 2012

 "@Puremin0rez Pause the whole server. Everyone would see a screen saying "the server is paused because so and so", with chat until unpaused"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 4, 2012

 "@JarGargon Some day, perhaps. Little tricky right now."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), July 9, 2012

 "I'm considering a change to maps to allow them to support more colours and texpack customizations, but back-compat would be difficult... Hm."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 27, 2012

 "@Brail4 Hard to do "properly". Working on it, but no guarantees."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 28, 2012

 "They're trying to take another village, so we used their tracks against them and sent in the turrets. I hope this works http://i.imgur.com/HXPKn.jpg "  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), January 7, 2013

 "Font files will have all their data serialized out so that we don't break the font trying to figure everything out ourselves. Not yet implemented as of time of writing." – Dinnerbone, May 28, 2013

 "One of my goals of the new attribute system is to allow Bane of Arthropods to temporarily slow spiders on hit. Only then will I be happy."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), May 30, 2013

 "MINECON 2013 Day 1" – November 2, 2013

 "@WesCook There's plans to!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), November 19, 2013

  "Analyzing block placement creates some really hard-to-read and slow code... That's the main reason why a "village house" is just a door. We hope to add better systems for analyzing constructions in the future, but changing the bookshelf layout is not our main priority." – u/jeb_ on Reddit, December 17, 2013

  "Enchantment that changes blocking could be fun, but I think that could better fit a different system I hope to be working on soon." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, December 18, 2013

  "I hope so, but it's really taxing from a technical standpoint." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, December 18, 2013

 "No. Logical issues with crafting and destroying. There would have to be separate coal/charcoal blocks which isn't nice."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 5, 2013

 "Hmm... http://i.imgur.com/sVh2k0p.png"  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), November 8, 2013

 "Yesh yesh y'all http://i.imgur.com/bgm4lpW.png"  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), June 17, 2014

 "Well, I didn't think cloud height could possibly be controversial among the team, but it is, so out it goes. Sorry for getting hopes up."  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), June 17, 2014

 "@Tarvii Ain't done yet. Camera controls are on my list."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), January 30, 2014

 "I do have an Ultimate Plan™ with endermites, but it will wait. May also include dragon egg but I haven't discussed this with the team yet."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 13, 2014

 "@Brail4 No problem! We're rewriting the inventory system + the keybind system to make stuff like this possible, but I can't guarantee when.."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), March 20, 2014

 "@cazzar99 Which bug? Building our own soundengine is on the todo list :("  – @_grum (Erik Broes) on X (formerly Twitter), April 9, 2014

  "I hear you there. It would be nice to make the terrain generation and terrain rendering multithreaded, but the code isn't quite decoupled enough yet to make such a thing easy. It's somewhere on the road map, though." – u/TheMogMiner on Reddit, April 24, 2014

  "Yeah, chunk loading is a pretty personal bugbear for me. ..." – u/TheMogMiner on Reddit, June 7, 2014

 "@DtrollMcModder It's one of the things I'm looking into, actually! Thanks for your input, I'm glad people are looking forward to a fix. :)"  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), June 6, 2014

 "@TABII98_1911 Yup, can you send me a DM with the pictures?"  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), July 12, 2014

 "@TABII98_1911 Probably not in this snapshot, but remind me on Friday."  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), July 2, 2014

 "@docm77 that's not how it works, but I'll write down the idea for something else I plan to add eventually :)"  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), July 23, 2014

 "@cyruschan2003 Maybe one day"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), August 7, 2014

  "OAuth is still on our todo list, but it's not a high priority right now (or rather, we have a bunch of higher priority things which need to come first) sorry" – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, November 25, 2014

 "Question: @Dinnerbone Is it or will it be possible to set the world border center-point to slowly move? Travelling UHC mode would be cool. Answer: @WorkdayLobster I do want to add this."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), April 24, 2014

  "Toggle certain spectator options (noclip, outlines)" – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, May 6, 2014

 "@Spenny1425 Well, maybe not nachos, but corn could be a fun food source"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), January 13, 2015

 "@searous Maybe, but we also like the mystery"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), February 10, 2015

 "Minecon 2015 - Upcoming Features" – MinMax123, July 5, 2015 – via YouTube

 "@JonpotTDS you can't use them, the functionality is disabled in release builds. Some of it will soon be added to /clone, but not in 15w31"  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), July 29, 2015

 "MINECON 2015 The Minecraft Team: Behind the Scenes" – Minecraft, August 10, 2015 – via YouTube

 MC-84377

 "In MCPE news, working on Oculus this week, specifically on autoclimb. It means that the player should follow the terrain like a minecart!"  – @_tomcc (Tommaso Checchi) on X (formerly Twitter), November 30, 2015

 https://x.com/_grum/status/586784887790788608

 https://x.com/_grum/status/586795408103452672

 "Had a feeling of being followed for a while. Finally got proof. Restraining order has been filed. Pls report if seen"  – @argo_major (Jason Major) on X (formerly Twitter), January 24, 2016

 "@alphaxseven @Dinnerbone @SeargeDP I think we will phase out the furnace minecraft"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), February 15, 2016

  "I like this idea! That doesn't mean it will get added right now, though. Two issues; maybe a little too niche, and where would it live? ;)" – u/jeb_ on Reddit, May 16, 2016

 "If the dragon head block would have a banner pattern, what would it look like?"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), November 30, 2016

  "Added to our minor polishing list." – u/jeb_ on Reddit, December 15, 2016

  "Added to our minor polishing list." – u/jeb_ on Reddit, December 15, 2016

  "I have a branch with a prototype for this somewhere, might have time to work on it for 1.13 :)" – u/_Grum on Reddit, April 20, 2017

  "Very cool! I'll pass this along. :)" – u/HelenAngel on Reddit, November 19, 2017

 https://c418.org/albums/minecraft-volume-alpha/

 https://web.archive.org/web/20190710011808/cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/302099229755834370/422895090361696257/image.png

 "MINECON Earth 2018 - The Minecraft Developers panel!" – Minecraft, October 2, 2018 – via YouTube

 https://www.reddit.com/r/minecraftsuggestions/comments/9rpbvc/comment/e8lgp1r

 https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/360018728511-Mob-spawning-needs-to-be-more-balanced-on-Minecraft

 https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/360009611392-Allow-Chest-and-Hopper-Minecarts-to-Ride-Boats

 "Ideally, yes"  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), April 2, 2019

 "MINECON Live 2019" – Minecraft, September 28, 2019 – via YouTube

 "Ask Mojang Episode #4"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, November 8, 2026.

 "Nether boats?"  – @MiaLem_n (Maria Lemón) on X (formerly Twitter), March 1, 2020

 "Ask Mojang Midsummer Special with Jeb"  – Minecraft on YouTube, June 18, 2020

 "Glow worms are super awesome and something I don't see often. I would love to have something like this :)"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), July 31, 2021

 "I agree, that would be awesome! But most likely out of scope for this update. Aquifers were complicated enough. Would be hard to avoid things like a river flowing down a hill and up into the next."  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), July 19, 2021

 "No, because we have the same problem with rivers running through deserts. Would need to create a warm river biome or something and we just ran out of time for this update. Maybe in the future :)"  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), November 18, 2021

 "FEEDBACK NEEDED: We're thinking on how to solve persistence issues with mobs. Currently there are a issues where Zombies, for example, will pick up an item that is dropped such as Chicken eggs or Glow Ink Sacs, and as a result become persistent without player intervention (1/2)"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), November 15, 2021

 "Yeah to add on to what Sarc said, I'd prefer to have a Moss Layer type of block which can be attached to anything. My dream is a block-type that quite literally layers onto the texture, so you can't even see the space between the layer block and the block underneath."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), July 2, 2021

 "Made a tweet about missing blocks but wrote a block that isn't missing ;) Retweeting. There are no terracotta stairs or half slabs. What are some other blocks you feel we should add that are missing?"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), May 29, 2021

 "People linking me this as if ice caves have never popped into our minds before 😂 This looks awesome 😎 but right now we need to finish the content we've already promised before we think about other biomes."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), February 20, 2021

 "It wouldn't just be Ulraf, and this isn't anytime soon. The only information that is relevant is that the gameplay design team will be taking over the combat snapshots work at some point, but no ETA on when that will happen."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), January 14, 2022

 "Yep definitely combat in general is very different, but we will absolutely focus on revamping both platforms when we have the capacity and feel it's the right time. For now, Wild Update is our focus and it's nice to get small wins like this in the mean time!"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), March 17, 2022

 "This was unintended, as I've mentioned to some people there is an interesting design space to be explored about wither-proof moveable blocks that you can't obtain by mining, and only moving. In saying that, I don't know if that's a space we're going to explore this update."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), February 18, 2022

 "After eating snails, I thought about how I'd hypothetically do snails in Minecraft:I'd probably make them a cube the shape & size of a player head, like a mini ShulkerThere'd be no foot or head, just the shell is visible Solid collision, requires pickaxe to mine"  – @Xilefian  on X (formerly Twitter), August 11, 2022

 "I agree about the fly mushroom. I think Notch added it because it looks cool. The brown mushroom is a penny bun and is definitely edible. We currently aren't planning to change them, but we'll see in the future."  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), August 26, 2022

 "?"  – @wChiwi  on X (formerly Twitter), October 12, 2022

 "twitch.tv/videos/1678106040Just watched this livestream with LadyAgnes, we got some interesting information9:10 - Agnes isn't as hands-on with individual features, mainly working on holistic design37:25 - Why the camel was added39:45 - Research on new animals"  – @block_updates_  on X (formerly Twitter), December 25, 2022"1:30:45 - Agnes wants to add sloths to the game (not confirmed to be coming, of course)1:37:13 - How long do features take to concept and add"  – @block_updates_  on X (formerly Twitter), December 25, 2022

 https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/17zinjo/comment/ka0d1l0/

 "I completely sympathize with this <3 I think that the hope long term is that Mending can be obtained in more ways than just Villager trading. Right now it felt like it was the best source, where I think it needs to go more into being spread out to multiple areas of the game."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), September 25, 2023

 "Developer's note on the potion color changes: we recognize that this change is not going to improve the readability for all color blindness. A real solution is to make individual potion textures for each type, but for now we're just doing this small fix until we have capacity"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), March 1, 2023

 "yea probably it could be a chonky sniffer egg, using probably 3 meshes like this:"  – @wChiwi  on X (formerly Twitter), July 30, 2024

 "Vaults were designed to be multi-purpose and can be used in other structures. Right now, we're focusing on the Trial Chambers, but they are designed to be usable in any structure. Of course, it's not as simple as just slapping Vaults in old structures, it will require tweaking."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), January 26, 2024

 Ulraf (a Minecraft Dev) Shared Insights On The Game’s Future. Here’s The Summary: – Reddit

 https://bsky.app/profile/jebox.bsky.social/post/3mlkoyjp7z22m

 "Village & Pillage: Official Trailer"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 23, 2019

 "Hmm, the changelog of 23w31a failed to mention the new functionality of camel tables. Terrible oversight..."  – @gnembon_mc  on X (formerly Twitter), August 2, 2023"For those that get hyped up from my previous post - its my bad. I just, by accident, was using the same world for fixing camel standing up into block and to test light effect on retextured snow layers with high random tick speed. Nothing more than that..."  – @gnembon_mc  on X (formerly Twitter), August 2, 2023"We often test at Mojang random ideas ourselves, like how sand layers would look like in the desert, and these stay in our test worlds. Definitely, don't get attached to these. I should have double checked what I have in the background before posting :("  – @gnembon_mc  on X (formerly Twitter), August 2, 2023

 "NEW MOB AND GEAR IN THE NEXT GAME DROP!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, July 1, 2025

 "I tried really hard, but nobody seems to dislike the change so far. I failed, time to add a fuel requirement to crafting tables."  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), October 14, 2015

 "Koalas in tanks on airplanes with laser rifles? No, but I like the idea, let's put it on the "maybe later" list."  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), September 16, 2015

 "So obviously, hotdogs confirmed for 1.6"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), April 25, 2011

 wordofnotch:359769783 "Crafting and Mining in Minecraft" – The Word of Notch, January 29, 2010

 https://web.archive.org/web/20130905030046/https://scrolls.com/2013/08/scrolls-changelog-0-103-0-super-friendly-edition

 "http://i.imgur.com/1DNGn.png"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 23, 2011

 "Except for some minor disturbances I'm still working on bugfixing, but damn beavers http://i.imgur.com/u37IJ.png"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), November 1, 2011

 "I'll add chips when 100% of the community agrees they look like link removed or like link removed"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), August 24, 2012

 "DRAGONS CONFIRMED"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), April 13, 2015

 "Tophats confirmed for 1.4!"  – @Marc_IRL (Marc Watson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 17, 2012

 "Snapshot 12marc40awesome coming soon by our very own @Marc_IRL!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), October 4, 2012

 "How many pine cones grow on a tree? This must be answered or no more work can be done."  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), October 25, 2012

  "Hey abrightmoore, next tuesday at around 8." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, August 3, 2012

 "Bingo."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), December 24, 2012

 http://twitch.tv/sethbling/b/364067137 [dead link]

 "Pizza confirmed for the next update?"  – @KrisJelbring (Kristoffer Jelbring) on X (formerly Twitter), November 15, 2013


 "Other ones we considered:" – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, March 27, 2017


 "• Krillager - Swims around and gets eaten by whales" – u/jeb_ on Reddit, March 27, 2017

 [https://twitter.com/Xilefian/status/1330844005865844736 "If I see some good answers I will campaign to have Worcestershire sauce added to Minecraft 👨‍🍳
Zero promises, though."]  – @Xilefian  on X (formerly Twitter), November 23, 2020

 "Around the Minecraft World in 80 Biomes: Episode 1"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 13, 2022

 "That means we need a washing machine block"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), April 6, 2021

 [https://twitter.com/Xilefian/status/1425389399055929349 "What if we added a hydraulic excavator mech suit to Minecraft 🤔
It could have lasers, fly with jet engines, also it makes lots of noise and has a holographic HUD that tells you where to dig for diamonds 🏗️
Gives you +400% health 🦾
Powered by rabbits' feet to keep it balanced 🐇"]  – @Xilefian  on X (formerly Twitter), August 11, 2021

 "yes this is how warden gets players to stop pillaring up, it asks really, really nicely for you to get down and then it offers some tea and invites you over for some cake"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), October 17, 2021

 "Let’s add tickling to minecraft! 😳"  – @wChiwi  on X (formerly Twitter), February 23, 2023

 "1.20 NAME REVEAL and more... | MINECRAFT MONTHLY"  – Minecraft on YouTube, March 2, 2023

 "THE NAME OF THE NEXT GAME DROP IS... | MINECRAFT MONTHLY"  – Minecraft on YouTube, March 3, 2026

Navigation