Not to be confused with RenderDragon.

 For other uses, see Dragon (disambiguation).



This article documents a feature that has only been mentioned. 
This feature is unlikely to be added to the game in the foreseeable future.

Screenshot by kingbdogz of an ender dragon taking damage, making it appear like a red dragon.
The red dragon was a planned mob that was mentioned a few times during development, but has no current plans of being added to the game.

Contents

1 History
2 Trivia
3 References
4 Navigation

History
Markus Persson first mentioned adding dragons in August 2010 after the addition of Spider Jockeys in the Seecret Friday 8 update.

“So skeleton archers riding giant jumping spiders is overpowered? Just wait until I add dragons!„ — Notch at MinecraftCon 2010
One month later, during MinecraftCon 2010, he mentioned dragons once again.

“Dragons. Polar bears in winter. Sea update will include coral, fish. Goblin villages may not just be goblins, and will hate, not care, or like you. You can influence how much they like you. Unique items in village chests.„ — Notch at MinecraftCon 2010
On October 12, 2011, he announced on Twitter that after the addition of the ender dragon, he was planning to add "slightly less dangerous" red dragons, which would be able to land and wouldn't destroy terrain.

“After release, I will totally work on slightly less dangerous dragons that don't destroy terrain and can land and whatnot. They will be red.„ — Notch
In a Reddit thread on the same day, when questioned about how ender dragons destroy blocks in the overworld, he noted that implementing the dragon's AI for avoiding walls was challenging to implement, and therefore the team decided to make it break blocks. He said that "less overpowered" red dragons in the Overworld that wouldn't go through terrain would eventually be added.

“They will be different dragons. The Enderdragon will probably become larger, and the ones in the main world will be this size, won't go through terrain, and will be red because dragons are red.„ — Notch
In an AMA on Reddit on April 9, 2012, Jens Bergensten was asked about the red dragon, where he said that he would need to follow up on Notch's promise, but was unsure exactly how.

“Well since Notch more or less promised red dragons, I think I need to add them. I'm just not sure how yet...„ — Jens Bergensten
On October 22, 2013, Nathan Adams tweeted that the red dragon is shelved and not in development. After being asked about it again on December 15, 2013, he replied on Reddit that the red dragon would be added at some point, but not "right now".

“It was never promised, we have no plans to add a red dragon at this time.„ — Dinnerbone
“I'm sure one day there will be. Not right now though.„ — Dinnerbone
In November 2022, Brandon Pearce joked about the red dragon by pointing out that the ender dragon looks red when being damaged.

“DID YOU KNOW?? red dragon already exists you just gotta hit the ender dragon and it appears for a split second„ — kingbdogz
On February 24, 2026, Jens Bergensten was asked when the last time anyone at Mojang Studios seriously discussed the red dragon, where he said that they still do occasionally, but not from a development perspective.

“Yes, we talk about it from time to time, but usually in the context of the "old days when we tweeted a lot".„ — Jens Bergensten
Trivia
One of the winners of the MINECON 2013 costume contest was a Red Dragon.
References

 "So skeleton archers riding giant jumping spiders is overpowered? Just wait until I add dragons!"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), August 20, 2010

 MinecraftCon 2010: gamestick stream transcription – Stickman on the Minecraft Forum, September 2, 2010

 "After release, I will totally work on slightly less dangerous dragons that don't destroy terrain and can land and whatnot. They will be red."  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), October 12, 2011

 Partly, yes.I've added the code for multiple segments for larger mobs so each part has its own collisions and physics. It knows if you hit it in the head or the left wing, and each part has individual player collisions, and so on. On a technical level, it works by letting each entity define a bunch of sub entities if it wishes to. The entity is fully responsible for all physics and saving and loading of the sub entities. It's working surprisingly well, and it appears to be working in multiplayer as well, although I haven't started testing the dragon in MP yet.Originally, it hit walls and couldn't move through them. It awkwardly turned around and changed direction. The player can easily create walls on their own, and trying to make an AI to properly navigate arbitrary terrain before the code freeze next tuesday isn't feasible when there's so much more we need to do.And since the dragon is going to start out as an overpowered boss enemy (I'm definitely adding less overpowered dragons for the main world after release), we don't want too many easy ways to deal with it, so we had a short design meeting and decided to make it cheat. – Reddit, u/xNotch, October 12, 2011

 They will be different dragons. The Enderdragon will probably become larger, and the ones in the main world will be this size, won't go through terrain, and will be red because dragons are red. – Reddit, u/xNotch, October 12, 2011

  "Well since Notch more or less promised red dragons, I think I need to add them. I'm just not sure how yet..." – u/jeb_ on Reddit, April 9, 2012

 "It was never promised, we have no plans to add a red dragon at this time."  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), October 22, 2013

  "I'm sure one day there will be. Not right now though." – u/Dinnerbone on Reddit, December 18, 2013

 "DID YOU KNOW?? red dragon already exists you just gotta hit the ender dragon and it appears for a split second"  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), November 1, 2022

 "Yes, we talk about it from time to time, but usually in the context of the 'old days when we tweeted a lot'." – @jebox.bsky.social  on Bluesky, February 24, 2026

 "MINECON 2013 Costume Contest"  – Minecraft on YouTube, January 1, 2014

Navigation