"Bluestone" redirects here.  For the blue rock used for enchanting, see Lapis Lazuli.
 Not to be confused with Redstone Dust.



This article documents a feature that has only been mentioned. 
This article describes a mistake made by the editors of Svep Studios. Bluestone dust was never planned to be added to the game, and does not exist in any version of the game.



This  topic  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

Bluestone Dust

Designation

Rendering error



Version of

Gunpowder Redstone dustGlowstone dustSugar

First appearance

Village & Pillage: Official Trailer

{
    "title": "Bluestone Dust",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Rendering error",
            "label": "Designation"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Version of"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Village & Pillage: Official Trailer article, displayed as Village & Pillage: Official Trailer)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Bluestone.png"
    ]
}

Bluestone dust is an animation error from the official trailer for Village & Pillage.

Contents

1 History
2 Gallery

2.1 Recreation

3 References
4 Navigation

History
Prior to the animation error incident, bluestone was already a term within the Minecraft community, describing a variation of redstone dust that is blue instead of red. It became a common suggestion as a way to run two unconnected sets of wires next to each other.
In the official trailer for Village & Pillage, a piece of blue dust could be seen as a reward given out by villagers due to Hero of the Village. It was likely meant to be gunpowder rather than redstone, because redstone dust was given out before by the same villager, and none of the other villagers dropped the same exact item twice. Gunpowder is the only other powder-like item that cleric villagers give out under the conditions.
This led to rumors of it being a teaser for the following update, with some speculating it to be the previously mentioned bluestone dust. Others thought it would be cobalt and the next update would be called "Combat and Cobalt." Another factor was the Java Edition Combat Tests, which many assumed at the time were building up to the immediately proceeding update.
It was later clarified that the dust was erroneously colored blue and not a hint at a future feature.
Mojang has stated that they have and still will reject suggestions for bluestone and said that they will focus on adding more to existing redstone systems.

Gallery



			Frame of the update video showcasing the bluestone dust.


Recreation



			Recreation of the bluestone dust.


References

 "Minecraft: Blue Redstone [Minecraft 15w14a Snapshot]"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, April 1, 2015

 My idea for simple more compact redstone: bluestone! – Reddit, u/Hypetic, July 8

 Bluestone? In the new Village and Pillage video – Reddit, u/Camcamcam753, April 23, 2019

 "Minecraft Theory- BLUESTONE IN MINECRAFT PE!? (Read description)"  – Electro Games on YouTube, May 4, 2019

 "did we just GUESS what Minecraft 1.15 is?!"  – AntVenom on YouTube, May 4, 2019

 "Hey! Apparently there was a weird rendering error in the Village & Pillage trailer where some redstone wound up looking blue. This was not intentional. 😬 Just a mistake and not a reference or tease to anything. Sorry! 🙇🏻‍♀️" (archived) – @Chupacaubrey  on X (formerly Twitter), May 5, 2019

 "Previously Considered Suggestions"     – Minecraft Feedback, May 7, 2020.

Navigation