This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Legacy Console Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers

Skins

20

Price

 310 Minecoins

Release date

BE & LCE: March 28, 2017
3DS: November 20, 2018

{
    "title": "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "20",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 310 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE & LCE:''' March 28, 2017\n*'''3DS:''' November 20, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a skin pack crossing over with Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, the first season of the long-running Power Rangers tokusatsu franchise, based off of the Japanese show Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger of the Super Sentai franchise. The skin pack was delisted on March 31, 2020.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition
3.3 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Gallery
5 References
6 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Blue Ranger

Billy Cranston, the first blue ranger to appear in Power Rangers.

Pink Ranger

Kimberly Hart, the first pink ranger to appear in Power Rangers.

Red Ranger

Jason Lee Scott, the first red ranger to appear in Power Rangers and leader of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.

Yellow Ranger

Trini Kwan, the first yellow ranger to appear in Power Rangers.

Trini's counterpart in the Sentai series, Boi, was notably male. In order to have a stronger gender ratio, he was ironically traded for a female character.

Black Ranger

Zack Taylor, the first black ranger to appear in Power Rangers.

Green Ranger

Tommy Oliver, the first green ranger to appear in Power Rangers and sixth member of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.

In tokusatsu series, it is common for there to be an additional hero to join after the founding of the team, usually a fourth or sixth member. Tommy was notable for being the very first in Power Rangers, with his equivalent in Zyuranger, Burai, sharing a similar honor.

White Ranger

Tommy Oliver, the former green ranger and first white ranger to appear in Power Rangers.

Tommy would become notable for being the longest serving hero in the franchise, taking on various other mantles across Power Rangers Zeo, Power Rangers Turbo, and Power Rangers Dino Thunder. The white ranger was the first time he took on an additional persona, using a suit from Gosei Sentai Dairanger.

Alpha 5

Robotic ally and mission control of the Power Rangers.

Rita Repulsa

Ancient witch and archnemesis of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.

Lord Zedd

Emperor of evil and main antagonist of the overall Power Rangers franchise.

Goldar

Humanoid "flying monkey" and servant of Rita Repulsa, notable for his rivalry with the red ranger.

Scorpina

Humanoid, scorpion themed woman and servant of Rita Repulsa, notable for her romance with Goldar.

Putty

Common foot soldier of Rita Repulsa, made out of clay.

Rito Revolto

Camouflage-colored skeleton and brother of Rita Repulsa.

Ninjor

Robot-like figure, serving as a major ally to the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers and creator of their abilities.

Red Ranger w/ Dragon Shield

Jason wearing the Dragon Shield, as first depicted in the episode Gung Ho!

Black Ranger w/ Dragon Shield

Zack wearing the Dragon Shield, as first depicted in the episode An Oyster Stew, which would later become a major plot point in Boom! Comics Mighty Morphin Power Rangers series.

Megazord

Also known as the Dino Megazord, the Megazord is the trademark mecha of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, combined from several smaller mechs known as zords.

Bulk

Comic relief character on the show, beginning as a dim-witted bully before gradually evolving into an avid ally of the Power Rangers.

Skull

Comic relief character on the show, beginning as a scraggly sidekick to Bulk before gradually evolving into an avid ally of the Power Rangers.

Quotes
“It’s Morphin Time! The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers are coming to Minecraft. Including the 5 original Power Rangers and many more characters from the classic series, this skin pack is nothing short of Morphinominal. Go! Go! Power Rangers!„ — Xbox 360 Marketplace description
“Assemble your Mighty Morphin Power Rangers team and Go Go!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition1.0.5
Added the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers skin pack.Bedrock EditionMarch 31, 2020
The skin pack gets delisted from the Marketplace.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU51CU411.441.441.44Patch 201.0.3
Added the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers skin pack.March 31, 2020[verify]
The skin pack gets delisted.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.8.13
Added the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers skin pack.March 31, 2020[verify]
The skin pack gets delisted.
Gallery



			The Megazord and Ninjor fighting Goldar.



			Alpha 5 and the Power Rangers in the Command Center; note Zordon made out of sea lanterns.



			The Evil Space Aliens.



			Three armored rangers fighting putties while Bulk and Skull watch.



			The Red Ranger on the banner for Pocket Edition 1.0.5.


References

 "Power Rangers come to Console, Pocket and Windows 10!"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, March 28, 2017.

Navigation