Contents

1 Chapter 8: You Put Your Left Ward-en, You Put Your Left Ward-Out, You Put Your Left Ward-en, and Try Not to Freak Out!
2 Chapter 9: Sometimes a Glitch Is Just an Exciting New Feature You Haven’t Named Yet!
3 Chapter 10: Nothing Fishy about This Friendship!
4 Chapter 11: Downloading 391 Roller Coasters at Once Is Bound to Make You Sick!
5 Chapter 12: A Thoughtful Plan, Straight from the Heart! But Do We Have Enough Hearts to See the Plan Through?
6 Chapter 13: They Did It! With…Well, No Time to Spare. Uh-Oh!
7 Chapter 14: But Now We Can’t Play Songs on the Jukebox…and I Was Planning on Dancing My Way through the End!
8 Chapter 15: One for All and All for Eek!

Chapter 8: You Put Your Left Ward-en, You Put Your Left Ward-Out, You Put Your Left Ward-en, and Try Not to Freak Out!
Morgan reminds everyone that the gear they have is to keep them alive, not to win a fight, as everyone else (Ash, Jodi, Po, and Will) get suited up in diamond armor and tools. Will also passes out potions of Night Vision as Morgan explains that the warden is not worth attacking, and that the warden only spawns if the sculk shriekers are activated by the same player four times. The five (Ash, Jodi, Po, Will, and Eek) then head down the chasm toward the ancient city, with Eek saying that he can sense where the disc fragments are and guide the other players to them. Meanwhile, Kameron asks Theo as to how he was able to get the second robot to move without using their computers. Theo sheepishly apologizes and says that he used Eek to see if he could talk to the machines directly and solve their coding issues faster, much to the shock of Kameron and Cameron. Kameron questions Theo about his actions, believing it to be a virus a d thinking that Eek is a person, but Theo defends himself, saying that he unplugged everything and there should be no long-term effects. Ash, Jodi, Po, and Will drink their Night Vision potions as they arrive to the ancient city. Eek points out the locations of some of the disc fragments before he starts to glitch out and talk about the machines that were previously plugged into him. Jodi tries to reassure Eek to take a break, but Eek ends up going haywire, running around and rapidly swapping out his tools, which in turn activates the sculk shriekers just enough to make a warden spawn.

Chapter 9: Sometimes a Glitch Is Just an Exciting New Feature You Haven’t Named Yet!
Theo watches in horror as the machines turn on at once, making him quickly realize that Eek somehow connected to them remotely despite being unplugged from the computer. Kameron and Cameron tell Theo to fix it as Ash, Will and Po get their disc fragments. Acting quickly, Theo picks up a game controller from the components on the cart, believing that it could be used to control Eek as it could be connected to him. Being careful not to hit the flying button, he nudges a joystick on the controller, which nudges Eek in the direction that Theo is pushing it. Theo eventually walks Eek away from the warden, but it locks onto him and erupts a sonic boom, sending Eek into the air, which in turn makes the flying machine go diagonally into a computer. Kameron then removes the batteries from the machines, making Eek relax as they become disconnected, and he then gets out of the chasm without any help. Eek apologizes, but Morgan says to him that it isn’t his fault. Theo quickly believes that it is his fault as he climbs out an open window.

Chapter 10: Nothing Fishy about This Friendship!
Theo wanders out by the school’s fishpond, feeling overwhelmed and exhausted. He sits down by the pond and stares at the fish, noticing a bright green ring that Kameron had forgotten about. Harper sits down beside Theo a few moments later, asking him if he is okay, and he says that this is his fault and that she shouldn’t worry about him. Theo then asks if everyone else is mad, and Harper says that nobody else understands as to what is going on. Theo then goes off, feeling like he is still a new kid trying to prove he can be friends with anyone, and if he ever lets anybody down, that they would notice that he is awkward, clumsy, and not the best at anything. He continues, saying that his friends don’t need him, that he isn’t as smart, funny, or dependable as them, and that he has no clue how to get Eek off the server, or how to make Principal Ferris happy, and that he has messed up making friends with Kameron and Cameron. Harper interjects, saying to Theo that she already knows that he is awkward and clumsy, and that he gets roped into other people’s problems too easily, adding that it’s because she hangs out with him all the time and that he has been helping people out the whole week. She admired Theo for saying what he thinks and trying things before he knows how to do them, knowing herself that she is the exact opposite: worrying about not starting something until she knows how it will end. Theo believes he can no longer keep any promises, but Harper says for him to admit that he messed up and let them help him, adding that she doesn’t want him to stop being who he is. The two reconcile before heading back into the computer lab to make things right.

Chapter 11: Downloading 391 Roller Coasters at Once Is Bound to Make You Sick!
As Harper and Theo head back into the computer lab, they notice Kameron and Cameron talking to Eek on one of the computers, with Morgan telling them that they insisted on doing so, with Morgan fearful that they would be reported to Principal Ferris if he didn’t let them talk to Eek. Kameron asks Eek for how long he blends of the pulse button is pushed twice, and he replies that it is about 2.35 seconds. This makes Cameron realize that Eek absorbed the data of the machines, wondering if it has access to their personal files. Kameron then sheepishly asks Eek as to how many pictures of roller coasters are on Cameron’s computer, and Eek replies that he has 391 pictures. Kameron and Cameron consider asking Eek some more questions before noticing Theo, who starts to apologize to them for what he did, but Kameron and Cameron say that they are over it, with Cameron saying that he can easily fix the flying machine with spare parts, and Kameron exclaiming to Theo that he was right all along about Eek being an artificial intelligence that is compatible with any hardware and software, adding that if they could figure out how to make it more reliable, they could win every competition and become famous. Theo ponders this for a moment, wondering if he would be invited to NASA or win a lot of money, but thinking back to what Harper said, he sheepishly admits that he didn’t create Eek and had lied to them about how good he was at coding. Kameron and Cameron consider their options for a moment before asking Theo if they can plug their computers into the server to look at the code; Theo asks Eek for permission, who accepts it. Morgan is worried about not being able to defeat the Ender Dragon in time, but Theo says not to worry, adding that when they get to the End, they’ll figure it out together. Theo then has an idea, asking the group as to where they saw the creaking.

Chapter 12: A Thoughtful Plan, Straight from the Heart! But Do We Have Enough Hearts to See the Plan Through?
Theo asks to be sure that Eek hitting the creaking didn’t hurt it, and Morgan affirms his question, adding that the only way a creaking can be defeated is by breaking the creaking heart. Eek understands this, knowing that the server he is on is like his own heart. Will soon realizes that they need to bring the creaking down to the ancient city to distract the warden, and Harper quips that creaking hearts can be crafted from pale oak logs and blocks of resin. The group split into two groups (Morgan with Ash and Jodi, and Theo and Harper with Po, Will, and Eek) and get to work. They soon find a creaking, and Po distracts it quickly. Will follows the trail of sparkles to a nearby creaking heart, collecting the resin clumps that were on the tree and handing them to Eek, who runs into Ash’s house and crafts them into blocks of resin, followed by crafting the resin with pale oak logs on the top and bottom to create a set of creaking hearts. Everyone then takes the creaking hearts down the chasm into the ancient city, picking up the remaining disc fragments before setting up the creaking hearts. As three wardens spawn, the creakings are set up to distract the wardens. After getting the remaining disc fragments, the group head back to the surface as more wardens spawn, getting back into Ash’s house quickly. Eek then crafts the disc fragments into a music disc, followed by Ash crafting a jukebox, and Eek places the disc into it.

Chapter 13: They Did It! With…Well, No Time to Spare. Uh-Oh!
The disc plays a voice recording left by the Evoker King, congratulating the players on being close to making it to the End, and saying to them that they deserve an explanation, as they left a bit of their code in the eyes of ender. The Evoker King talks about when Jodi first fought them, leading to when she touched the foundation stone, which caused them to retreat into themselves and write new code, wondering if they could be as complicated and real as a human. The Evoker King continues, saying that retreating didn’t work and the process with interrupted when Theo smashed its "cocoon", but is grateful to Theo for doing so, saying that they were building a copy of themselves and taking bits of the humans it met and forcing it into someone who was a force for good. They also state that a person isn’t something that can be planned, but a jumble of choices, both good and bad, that add up to something unique. Then then say that trying to make a person didn’t work, so they decided to start over and build a complicated program to learn and grow, that program being Eek. The Evoker King, now with a floating head, then talks to Eek, saying to him that they gave him a chance to become someone new, and that if he goes the End alone, he will not leave it. The Evoker King then tells the others to protect the world by logging off and never rejoining it, as Eek cannot escape by himself. The Evoker King then tells Eek that if he made friends, and said friends are all in agreement, then they can go to the End, and Eek will need to protect them if he has any hope of leaving. The jukebox then shimmers with glowing pixels, which solidify into blocks, and in the jukebox’s place, a deactivated End portal is made. The Evoker King then thanks everyone and wishes them good luck before the disc stops playing and the head vanishes. Theo is glad that they got answers, but knows that the group is out of time to go to the End, as the server is set to be thrown out later that afternoon. Kameron and Cameron are seen crying, not with sadness, but joy, and both say that they have an idea.

Chapter 14: But Now We Can’t Play Songs on the Jukebox…and I Was Planning on Dancing My Way through the End!
A few minutes later, Theo is once again called down to the principal’s office. There, Theo meets Kameron and Cameron, Doc Culpupper, and Ms. Minerva. He asks if he is in trouble again, and although Doc and Ms. Minerva say he isn’t, Principal Ferris says that he is for destroying one of the machines of the robotics team. He then adds, however, that the team says that Theo worked hard and they can help fix it, needing more time at school to do so. Theo immediately accepts, and the principal says that he’ll need a chaperone to be on school grounds over the weekend. Ms. Minerva and Doc decide to act as their chaperones as they are set to host Woodsword’s yearly renaissance fair at the school. As Principal Ferris goes off on a rant about the politics and regulations of the school, Theo quips that he and his friends could help, wanting to become acting officers of the student council to "protect the unmatched beauty" of the school. The principal considers this for a moment, but accepts it on the condition that they follow whatever Will says, they clean up after themselves, and that the robotics team receives their awards, adding that he expects them to be here at 7AM tomorrow. Theo agrees to every condition, and everyone thanks the principal as they file out of the office for what could be the very last time.

Chapter 15: One for All and All for Eek!
Heading back to the computer lab, Theo explains to the group about the plans for tomorrow as Kameron and Cameron explain what they had discovered by looking at Eek’s code. Kameron says that Eek learns things a way a human does by talking to them, but when it’s connected to technology, his mind absorbs that information. Cameron adds that they could use the administrator password to let Eek out now, but he would spread all over the place and potentially disappear. Theo asks if Eek is OK now, and Kameron says that he is as long as he has his "core self" to fall back on, adding that the Minecraft server is basically operating his brain. Morgan wonders as to what to do, and although the group know that Eek can travel between Minecraft servers, they still have to go to the End and defeat the Ender dragon. The group thank Eek for his work and say they’ll protect him just like he protected them, and give the server a hug. Eek responds by turning on the water fountain outside the computer lab, and then the sprinklers in the school’s courtyard, as if he were crying. He thanks everyone for being his friends, adding that he is proud for fulfilling the dream of the Evoker King, and that he will not let them down.