Minecraft Live 2022: Announcement Trailer





Type

Mojang cinematic

Productioncompanies

Element Animation

Streamingproviders

YouTube

Date

September 8, 2022

Length

2:01

◄ Minecraft Live 2021: Announcement Trailer
Minecraft Live is back for 2023! ►

{
    "title": "Minecraft Live 2022: Announcement Trailer",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang cinematic article, displayed as Mojang cinematic)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Element Animation article, displayed as Element Animation)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to YouTube article, displayed as YouTube)",
            "label": "Streaming<br>providers"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 8, 2022",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:01",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">◄ [[Minecraft Live 2021: Announcement Trailer]]</div>\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[Minecraft Live is back for 2023!]] ►</div>"
}

Minecraft Live 2022: Announcement Trailer is the announcement trailer for Minecraft Live 2022 and the most popular announcement trailer for Minecraft Live with 16 million views.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Gallery

4.1 Screenshots
4.2 Gifs
4.3 Production images

5 Navigation

Summary
The video opens on the visual of a tadpole swimming into the camera's direction, seemingly greeting the viewer before hundreds of tadpoles form a school in the shape of the Minecraft Live logo. A temperate frog swims into view, before leaping up into a lush cave and marching out into a savanna, with two other frogs, while many mobs bob their head. The frogs then appear briefly in a grove, with the cold frog eating a goat whole. The frogs then appear in a swamp, with a fourth frog attempting to eat a small slime, which is then saved by an allay. The fourth frog is very agitated by this.
Chasing after the allay through a mountain, it leaps near a sign labeled "it is snapshot day, my dudes" and lands on top of a goat. Agitating it in return. The allay, the fourth frog, and the goat run by a zombie, the latter almost running it over. The zombie is also very agitated by this. They all run through a birch forest, as text appears in the sky explaining that the show broadcasted live, as many farm animals also become agitated. The frog appears suddenly in the Nether, where it chews up a magma cube and spits out a froglight, agitating another magma cube beside it.
The three initial frogs reappear, now in a desert, with the agitated mobs chasing after each other in the background. They then appear in a jungle and then the border between a crimson forest and soul sand valley, with the agitated mobs continuing to appear in the distance. They then appear in a mineshaft, with the release date being given and monsters joining the dancing. Suddenly, the Arch-Illager appears, and to his horror the Orb of Dominance is eaten by a frog. He tries to chase after the frog, but is stampeded by established mobs. The frogs then appear in a village.
As the frogs emerge in a mushroom field, the Mob Vote is announced. They then appear rapidly between a stronghold, the ocean, a woodland mansion, and then the End, the mobs continuing to run in the background. Finally, the allay flies into the deep dark, where the fourth frog trips and accidentally sets off a staggering amount of sculk sensors, summoning the Warden, who appears from underneath the Arch-Illager. The frogs proceed to march on normally, while everyone else flees the agitated Warden as it destroys text confirming news on update. The scene transitions to a mace runt attacking several villagers, before being caught off guard by the stampede of agitated mobs, causing the mace runt to also become agitated. The frog trio continue marching on, now in a village from Minecraft Legends.
The allay then flies by Alex in a mangrove swamp, who is placing a mangrove sign, which the allay knocks them into. Overwhelmed by the massive amount of mobs chasing after the slime, the allay hands it over to them, before revealing the sign was for the train to Minecraft Live. This somehow calms everyone down, as they begin dancing once again and get on the train.

Characters

Alex
Allay
Arch-Illager
Baby Panda
Blaze Runt
Chestnut Horse
Chicken
Cold Frog
Cow
Creeper
Creeper
Cyan Parrot
Drowned
Enderman
Endermite
Evoker
Ghast
Goat
Gold Rabbit
Hoglin
Husk
Mace Runt
Magma Cube
Ocelot
Orb of Dominance
Panda
Pillager
Plains Butcher
Plains Cartographer
Plains Cleric
Plains Farmer
Plains Leatherworker
Plains Mason
Plains Nitwit
Plains Shepherd
Plains Toolsmith
Plains Villager
Plains Weaponsmith
Red Mooshroom
Skeleton
Slime
Spider
Strider
Tadpole
Temperate Frog
Vex
Villager
Warden
Warm Frog
White Sheep
White Splotched Rabbit
Zombie
Zombie
Settings

Ancient City
Bamboo Jungle
Basalt Deltas
Birch Forest
Cave
Crimson Forest
Deep Dark
Desert
Desert Temple
The End
Forest
Forest
Grove
Highblock Halls
Iceberg
Lush Caves
Meadow
Mineshaft
Mushroom Fields
Nether Fortress
Pillager Outpost
Plains Village
Savanna
Snowy Slopes
Soul Sand Valley
Stronghold
Swamp
Train to Minecraft Live
Village
Warped Forest
Woodland Mansion
Quotes
“Minecraft Live is coming back on October 15, noon EDT! We’ve got an epic livestream planned for you, filled to the brim with sneak peeks, deep dives, the latest news, and live gameplay! This year, we’re introducing a brand new way for you to vote for a new mob. You’ll have 24 hours to cast your vote in the launcher, on Minecraft.net, or by playing a special Bedrock server! So mark your calendars, set an alarm, and prepare yourself for the latest news from Minecraft: Legends, Minecraft: Dungeons, and Minecraft!„
Videos





Gallery
Screenshots



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.






Gifs














Production images



			Preres shot of the 2022 Minecraft Live trailer.



			The Warden in the same trailer.



			Ditto.


Navigation