Contents

1 Chapter 1
2 Chapter 2
3 Chapter 3
4 Chapter 4
5 Chapter 5
6 Chapter 6

Chapter 1
Jesse is teleported to an area filled with obsidian and lava, with a speakerphone instructing Jesse to follow an "orange line" to a "check-in zone". Jesse does so, and the line takes them to a place known as the Sunshine Institute. The warden greets Jesse and informs that the institute is a reformatory for "difficult people". Jack/Petra show up and attack both the warden and Big Hank, giving time for Jesse to escape. The two go on a footrace with several associates and prison golems in an attempt to reach the burrows, but are soon caught by a prison golem. The warden sends Jack/Petra to the Mush Room, and sends Jesse to his office.

Chapter 2
In the warden's office, the warden introduces Jesse to Radar and Nurm, and puts Radar under "The Iron Breathtaker", with Jesse choosing whether or not to work for the warden as an associate. Stella shows up and informs the warden to watch Jesse for "trouble", mentioning their "rivalry" once more. The three (Jesse, Stella, and Radar) head to the Mush Room, a room where "guests" make mushroom stew. Inside, they meet Anthony, and numerous other "guests" Jesse can talk to, and is able to give Radar a cookie/mushroom stew. Suddenly, Prisoner X (revealed to be named Xara) escapes, and Anthony informs the four (Jesse, Radar, Jack/Petra, and Nurm) to go to a cell for safety. Jack/Petra explain to Jesse that Xara is locked in a cell deep underground, and Jesse believes that Xara and them need to work together.
Back in the Mush Room, Jesse believes that they can earn a promotion if they find out whether Oxblood is doing anything against the rules, and catches Oxblood keeping a mooshroom named Geoff in captivity. The warden explains to Jesse that they have to shear the mooshroom in order to get promoted.

Chapter 3
Depending on player choices, either Jesse or all four get taken to the Zombie Mines, an area where "guests" harvest zombies for rotten flesh. Jesse discovers that there is a redstone circuit connected to Xara's cell, and concludes that a lever needs to be made in order to bypass it. Jesse can make a truce with Stella if the player decides to do so, and is able to bypass the circuit to Xara's door. As Jesse is about to enter Xara's cell, the Admin shows up, punishes the warden, and orders Jesse to fight Jack/Petra. The battle ends in a draw after the two unite to fight against the Admin.

Chapter 4
The Admin disguises himself as Jesse, and teleports Stella to Beacontown with him. Afterward, the five (Jesse, Petra, Jack, Radar, and Nurm) hunt down for Xara.
At Xara's cell, it is revealed that the Admin's real name is Romeo, and Xara agrees to help Jesse escape on the condition that one of them (Nurm or Lluna) stay behind to prevent the explosives from being triggered.

Chapter 5
With the decision made, the prisoners escape the Sunshine Institute. In the burrows, the warden is in a rage over Prisoner X's escape and reveals that Xara was a former Admin. As the warden is about to ignite TNT, Xara kills him with a arrow, and the six (Jesse, Petra, Radar, Jack, Xara and Nurm/Lluna) fight numerous creatures, including creeders and the giant ghast.

Chapter 6
As Jesse defeated the giant ghast and was about to exit the burrows, Xara then reveals that there was a third Admin named Fred, who died during the battle with Xara against Romeo. Xara also reveals that the only way to take away Romeo's powers is to go below the bedrock.
In a post-credits scene, Romeo (disguised as Jesse) steals the Order's amulet and summons a guard to track down Jesse.