Contents

1 Chapter 1
2 Chapter 2
3 Chapter 3
4 Chapter 4
5 Chapter 5
6 Chapter 6

Chapter 1
The six (Jesse, Xara, Petra, Radar, Jack, and Nurm/Lluna) make their way down a tower, with Xara revealing that Fred had been killed in front of her in one of the rooms. Suddenly, a giant enderman appears and begins dismantling the tower, but the group barely escapes and make their way toward the Oasis, a city that supposedly has an automated farm. At the Oasis, it is revealed that the city is in ruins. Xara mourns over the destruction of her town and bed, but eventually gets over it, and tells Jesse that the portal is the only way home, and that the secret weapon is in Fred's house within Fred's Keep. The group (Jesse, Petra, Radar, Jack, and Nurm/Lluna) then go on a minecart track toward Fred's Keep.

Chapter 2
On the way to Fred's Keep, the giant enderman takes out a portion of the track, causing the group to separate. Jesse and Jack are hanging on the edge of a cliff, and are cornered by people who "sniff out for outsiders" (one of whom is named PorkChop). They offer their assistance in exchange for their swords. Should the player give them their swords, PorkChop and company will assist Jesse and Jack onto solid ground before leaving. Likewise, should the player refuse the deal, Jack will fall toward certain death, and Jesse is able to climb up safely. Nonetheless, the group (Jesse, Petra, Radar, Nurm/Lluna and/or Jack) make it to Fred's Keep.
At Fred's Keep, the group meet with Binta, who informs the group that they cannot enter Fred's house unless they win a trivia contest, in which Jesse accepts. Jesse is able to interact with other people at Fred's Keep in order to obtain more information about Fred, such as his favorite tool, his pet chicken's name, or his favorite color (lapis blue). Eventually, if Jesse wins the contest against the defending champion, Kent, he is able to search the house freely for the weapon. Likewise, if Jesse loses the contest, he sneaks into the house to find the weapon. It turns out, however, that the "weapon" is actually Fred's personal journal. Nonetheless, Jesse convinces that the people of Fred's Keep will have a much better life above the bedrock. Binta makes preparations while the group (Jesse, Petra, Radar, Nurm/Lluna and/or Jack) head toward Romeoburg.

Chapter 3
On the way to Romeoburg, the minecarts hit a few ditches, and Petra, Radar and Lluna/Nurm and/or Jack are hit with potions of slowness from the guard that "Jesse" (Romeo) summoned. After an altercation, it is revealed that the guard is Ivor, and Ivor explains that Romeo gave him the Order's amulet in order to find "the fraud" (the real Jesse). Jesse sets up Ivor with a cover story of the player's choosing to fool Romeo, and in exchange, Ivor allows Jesse to use the amulet. Ivor then disappears in a puff of smoke, and the group continue toward Romeoburg.

Chapter 4
At Romeoburg, the group are confronted by members of Romeo's supposed "army", which turns out to be just a record player. Having caught them in their act, the two (Soup and Val) let them in and let them take on Romeo's challenge room, which features various hostile, lava-infused mobs. The group are able to survive the challenge, and make it toward a cabin.

Chapter 5
Inside the cabin, Petra talks to Jesse about not being able to talk to each other, but the two reconcile and put aside their differences. The two then solve a puzzle to find Romeo's "weapon", which is known as "#POTATO451", and make it back toward the Oasis.
Back at the Oasis, Jesse sets off a firework rocket to signal the townspeople at Fred's Keep, and gives Fred's "weapon" to Xara. Suddenly, the giant enderman reappears and begins demolishing the portal, but it is quickly rebuilt by Jesse. The player can then choose to leave Radar behind as a distraction for the enderman or bring Radar with him, and the group goes through the portal.

Chapter 6
Back on the surface, the group (Jesse, Petra, Jack, Nurm/Lluna and Radar/Binta, Cam and Kent) arrives at the old temple of the Order of the Stone. Jesse notices a firework going off, and sees that Beacontown is under Romeo's control.
In a post-credits scene, Lukas meets with "Jesse" (Romeo), and asks him where the others are.