Contents

1 Chapter 9: Jack
2 Chapter 10: Belinda
3 Chapter 11: Cel
4 Chapter 12: Jack
5 Chapter 13: Belinda
6 Chapter 14: Jack
7 Chapter 15: Cel
8 Chapter 16: Belinda

Chapter 9: Jack
Jack, Belinda, Cel, and Mara stagger ashore as Hero Crowe stands atop a stone block, congratulating the four on passing the admissions test, giving leather armor and a wooden sword to them. Hero Crowe then gets on his horse and guides it toward the forest in front of them, saying to the four that they should keep up as he vanishes into the forest. The four then walk all night through the forest and into the next day, taking occasional breaks for food, until coming to an abrupt stop, with Hero Crowe saying to the four that his school is just beyond an area off in the distance, deciding to rest and let them build a shelter. Mara dashes to the nearest tree, driving its axe against its trunk, while Jack starts digging a hole in the ground. Cel asks Jack if they could work together, and although Jack laughs it off, he gives her some advice on how to build a shelter. Cel thanks him, leaving to tell Belinda what Jack had said as Jack himself muses on her words, not knowing who a friend is.

Chapter 10: Belinda
Belinda and Cel stare at the patch of land before them, with Belinda wondering as to what they would build. Cel mentions that she knows how to build fences as Belinda gazes at the caves in the distance. Just then, an idea pops into her head, and she and Cel head over to the cave by the mountains, with Belinda saying that they can build a shelter in there thanks to the torches they have. The two then place down torches to light up the cave and seal off the back opening before working on sealing up the front, chatting for a bit about their lives. By then, it was night, and a creeper soon approaches them. Belinda attacks it with her sword and it is killed in a few hits, but a spider skitters in unnoticed until Belinda turns her head back to the cave-like shelter. Cel pushes Belinda out of the way as the spider prepares to pounce on her, and Cel kills the spider with her sword as Belinda seals the front entrance. Cel then asks Belinda if she is okay, but Belinda just tucks herself into bed to avoid thinking about the spider.

Chapter 11: Cel
Cel’s eyes flutter open the following morning, screeching with joy that she and Belinda had survived the night, which in turn makes Belinda bolt upright in her bed. After the two eat some apples, they leave their cave shelter and head back toward where Hero Crowe was last seen. Belinda feels like she is a coward for freezing at the sight of the spider the night before, and although Cel insists that she was protecting her, Belinda storms off in frustration. Eventually, the two find a campfire flanked by the shelters of Hero Crowe and Mara. Mara emerges from her shelter (a simple oak wood house), followed by Jack coming out of the ground, and then Hero Crowe coming out of his shelter (an oak wood house with dark oak sloped roofing and an iron spire in the middle). After he says that he hopes everyone had their breakfast, he gets up on his horse and goes deeper into the forest. Cel’s stomach growls as she, Belinda, Jack, and Mara begrudgingly follow him.

Chapter 12: Jack
Jack huffs as Hero Crowe leads him and the other three (Cel, Belinda, and Mal) deeper  into the woods, noticing the canopy thicken and the trees get taller and thicker, as well as giant mushrooms appearing occasionally. Mara believes that they are lost, so Belinda says for her to ask him before Jack says that he will do so. Just before he opens his mouth, Hero Crowe explains that they have arrived as the four take in the sight of the woodland mansion. Jack is in disbelief as Hero Crowe explains to the group that they will defeat every hostile mob in the mansion, ranging from spiders and skeletons to vindicators and evokers. The five then cross a ravine to the entrance of the woodland mansion. Belinda enters first, followed by Cel, then Jack, and then Mara. The four take in their surroundings before Cel asks if they should wait for Hero Crowe to tell them what to do. Mara scoffs at the suggestion and heads down a hallway to the nearest opening. She finds a chest and excitedly opens it, only to find nothing. She then finds another chest, but it too has nothing in it.
Jack then sets down some torches to prevent hostile mobs from spawning, and Hero Crowe commends him for his thoughtfulness. Cel and Belinda start placing down torches as well. Jack, Cel, and Belinda then notice skeletons off in the distance. While Cel and Belinda run away, Jack kills a zombie that had lurched toward him, nearly breaking his dad’s iron sword. He then meets up with Cel and Belinda in a room filled with chests, bumping into Mara. Cel considers sealing the door to the room as Belinda and Mara get into a heated argument. Jack considers his options and decides to seal the door, placing down an oak log as he avoids a skeleton’s arrow, followed by a birch plank on top of it. Jack then gets angry at Cel for seemingly stealing his glory and storms off as Mara and Belinda argue once more about keeping themselves in the room or going after the skeletons. Mara then sits down on a wood block in a huff as Belinda whispers to Cel regarding their next plans. Jack decides to keep at a distance to avoid eavesdropping on their conversation as questions fill his mind about acting like a beginner.

Chapter 13: Belinda
Cel hands out loaves of bread as she wonders as to what they should do about the skeletons. Hero Crowe says that they must be defeated, adding that "tests" such as the skeletons will only get harder as they continue to travel the Overworld, wondering if anyone will give up, and saying that he cannot have cowards by his side. Belinda surges to her feet in rage, exclaiming that she and the others are not cowards, but also says that they are trained for this. Hero Crowe then says that he explicitly told the group earlier that the woodland mansion was filled with hostile mobs, asking Belinda if she knew that before he mentioned it. She starts to say that she didn’t, and Hero Crowe says that that was her first lesson before walking away. Belinda then takes the bread that Cel had offered to her before discussing with her about how to defeat the skeletons. The two ultimately decide to go after them while avoiding their arrows as best they can, breaking down the wood blocks where the door used to be and going after them.
They creep forward slowly before going after the skeletons, which are killed with ease. A creeper from further down the hall is also killed. Hero Crowe applauds Cel and Belinda for their bravery and starts picking up the loot that the skeletons had dropped. Belinda suggests that she and the other three should have the loot, but Hero Crowe defends his actions, stating that they are only here to learn. He then heads to an adjacent room with X’s on the wall made from cobblestone, reaching into a chest tucked in a corner and pulling out an enchanted golden apple. He offers it to Belinda, who takes it at first, but then gives it to Cel for her quick thinking and bravery from saving Belinda from the spider from last night. Cel hesitates, but then accepts the golden apple, placing it in her pack and thanking her. Hero Crowe then leads the four back into the chest room, saying to them to make this their area to sleep in, adding that when they eventually head out to journey on their own, he won’t be there to help them. In addition, Hero Crowe warns the four to not go out at night or wander the mansion alone, saying that there will be consequences if any of them do so. He then leaves the room for the night.

Chapter 14: Jack
The next morning, Jack is woken by a loud clang of a bell. Hero Crowe tells him to get ready as his training begins immediately. Jack then asks about why no one woke him up, and Belinda says that they all tried, even waving breakfast under his nose. Jack groans as he puts on his armor, noticing that the others had spent the rest of the night clearing out the first floor and placing down torches. Belinda and Cel then discuss about what they’ll do if they become adventurers before Hero Crowe says that he is ready for the group to begin their next lesson by fighting mobs. Mara wonders as to why they are fighting mobs again despite going against skeletons last night, and Hero Crowe simply says that they have yet to learn the lesson. He then guides the four to a set of doors with four chests beside them, telling the group to give up their items and only take what is in their assigned chest. Begrudgingly, the group give up their items before Hero Crowe gives Mara the first chest, which contains a wooden sword. Cel gets the second chest, which contains a wooden axe. Belinda gets the third chest, which contains a bow and some arrows. Jack gets the last check, which contains coal. He is bewildered by the fact that he gets an item whereas the others get weapons, but Cel reminds him that Hero Crowe said that it wouldn’t be a lesson if he told them the answer.
Hero Crowe then says to the group that the remaining rooms in the woodland mansion have been modified for their training, hoping that they will be ready for their next test. He then says that he remembered something important, but forgot it and wishes everyone good luck, giving a raw fish to Jack before closing the doors. Zombies are heard in the distance, and the group consider what to do. Jack and Cel decide to combine the coal and the axe to make torches while Belinda and Mara fight off the zombies and skeletons as best they can. Once the torches are crafted, Belinda prepares to charge into the room to force the hostile mobs back, but Mara runs ahead of them, making Jack and Cel follow her and bump into Belinda, with the three getting their feet tangled. An arrow then strikes into Jack’s shoulder, and he stumbles into the room away from the view of the skeletons. Jack gives the torches to Cel to light up the area, and out of spite, he starts eating the raw fish to heal. His stomach clenches and twists as he swallows parts of the fish, leading him to believe that the fish was intentionally poisoned by Hero Crowe.

Chapter 15: Cel
Cel dashes into the room, putting torches on the wall wherever she could, narrowly dodging a skeleton’s arrow. Belinda asks her if she is okay, and she says that she is, but loses sight of Jack. Belinda and Mara continue to attack the skeletons as Cel finds Jack stumbling sideways on the floor. A zombie approaches and attacks him, but Cel quickly kills it with her wooden axe. She drags Jack behind the nearest bookshelf and then focuses her attention on a spider, attacking it as she believes that Belinda has a fear of spiders, followed by Mara killing it. Hero Crowe is impressed at Mara for doing so, and then tells Jack that he gave him pufferfish instead of an actual raw fish, defending the action as stating that Jack didn’t know the difference. Hero Crowe returns each of the four their belongings before walking away as Jack is furious about being poisoned. Jack drinks some water, which does nothing. Cel then offers him something, but he angrily dismisses it as he stumbles toward Hero Crowe. Mara soon follows, followed by Belinda, and then Cel, with her trying to understand that being a friend can be hard sometimes.

Chapter 16: Belinda
The next morning, Hero Crowe wakes up everyone by slamming his sword against his shield, saying that the next lesson is one of his favorites and that he would rather show them what it is. Going around the mansion, Hero Crowe leads the group to an obstacle course, saying that if they can’t sprint, jump, or place blocks quickly, they wouldn’t be able to survive in the Overworld for long. The obstacle course consists of floating platforms, ladder jumps, and a large gap, all over a ditch filled with water. Mara starts on the floating platforms, using momentum to clear wider gaps, but misses one platform "by a hair" and falls into the water. Jack is next, easily going across the floating platforms, but falls into the water when attempting to grab a ladder. Cel is next, darting across the floating platforms, but is distracted when Mara exclaims that there is a creeper, causing Cel to flinch and fall into the water. Belinda is mad at Mara for making her distracted, but Hero Crowe defends it as everyone needs to be ready for whatever comes next. Belinda is last, darting across the floating platforms before tumbling into the water with a splash. She then says to Mara that the rest of the group can go home proud of what they accomplished, asking her directly as to what she would say when she goes home. Mara just stands up and walks away, making Belinda feel like there was more to Mara than just being a "spoiled girl looking to win". As Belinda sits beside Cel, Jack volunteers to get another chance at the obstacle course.