Minecraft (Step into Reading series)

Author(s)

Nick Eliopulos
Arie Kaplan
Nada Shawish Dutka

Illustrator(s)

Alan Batson

Country

 United States

Language

English

Genre(s)

Children's fiction

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Random House Children's Books

Release date

May 25, 2021 – present

Media type

Print, digital

{
    "title": "''Minecraft'' (Step into Reading series)",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Nick Eliopulos article, displayed as Nick Eliopulos)\n* (link to Arie Kaplan article, displayed as Arie Kaplan)\n* (link to Nada Shawish Dutka article, displayed as Nada Shawish Dutka)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Alan Batson article, displayed as Alan Batson)",
            "label": "Illustrator(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Flag of the United States.svg article, displayed as 15px|link=) (link to wikipedia:United States article, displayed as United States)",
            "label": "Country"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Children's fiction",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Penguin Random House#Random House Children's Books article, displayed as Random House Children's Books)",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 25, 2021 – present",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Print, digital",
            "label": "Media type"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos, Arie Kaplan, and Nada Shawish Dutka and illustrated by Alan Batson. Each book includes a set of thirty stickers.

Contents

1 Step into Reading books
2 Plot

2.1 Summary

3 Quotes
4 Gallery

4.1 Covers
4.2 Pages
4.3 Production images
4.4 Photographs

5 References
6 Navigation

Step into Reading books

Title

Published

Author(s)

Pages

Plot synopsis

Survival Mode!

May 25, 2021

Nick Eliopulos

32

Two players, Emmy and Birch, and their tame wolf Byte, set out to explore, build, craft–and survive–in the epic expanse of the Overworld!

Mobs in the Overworld!

June 15, 2021

Emmy, Birch, and their tame wolf Byte set out on an adventure to find Emmy a pet of her own. Along the way, they will encounter mobs that are helpful and mobs that are hostile in a story that’s filled with fun and action.

Escape from the Nether!

January 4, 2022

Two players, Emmy and Birch, and their tame wolf Byte, set out on an epic adventure into the mysterious Nether!

The Sky's the Limit!

January 3, 2023

Birch wants to go flying more than anything. Emmy has an idea for getting the right materials but it is going to be an incredible journey.

Mobs in the Mansion!

January 2, 2024

Arie Kaplan

Emmy and Birch–and their tame wolf Byte–set out on an epic adventure to explore a dark mansion!

Trouble Brewing!

September 3, 2024

Emmy and Birch—and their tame wolf Byte—find themselves trapped underground and must brew rare ingredients into powerful potions to survive the dark!

Welcome to the Overworld

March 4, 2025

Dennis Shealy

24

Based on the bestselling video game of all time, A Minecraft Movie brings the action to life as stars Jason Momoa, Jack Black, and Emma Myers are transported inside the world of Minecraft, where they will have to avoid exploding creepers, battle savage piglins, and learn the arts of building, crafting, and creating to survive. Meet all your favorite characters and creatures from A Minecraft Movie, including Steve, the creeper, a tamed wolf named Dennis, and even those sweet honey-making bees in this full-color leveled reader.

Search for the Snowy Wolf!

January 6, 2026

Nada Shawish Dutka

32

Emmy and Birch—and their tame wolf Byte—are on a search for the ultra-rare snowy wolf mob!

Plot



Spoiler warning! This section contains detailed information about "Minecraft (Step into Reading series)" that may spoil your enjoyment of it. Read at your own risk!

Summary
Main article: Minecraft (Step into Reading series)/PlotSummary[edit]

Quotes
“Calling all wolf girls! A rare wolf is joining the pack and she’s 🥶 and 😏. I’ve written a Step Into Reading Minecraft episode and it’s now available for pre-order!„ — Nada Shawish Dutka
Gallery
Covers



			Cover for Survival Mode!



			Cover for Mobs in the Overworld!



			Cover for Escape from the Nether!



			Cover for The Sky's the Limit!



			Cover for Mobs in the Mansion!



			Cover for Trouble Brewing!



			Cover for Welcome to the Overworld!



			Cover for Search for the Snowy Wolf!



			Cover for a collection of the series.


Pages










































Production images






Photographs






References

 Survival Mode! (Minecraft) by Nick Eliopulos; Illustrated by Alan Batson

 Mobs in the Overworld! (Minecraft) by Nick Eliopulos; Illustrated by Alan Batson

 Escape from the Nether! (Minecraft) by Nick Eliopulos

 The Sky's the Limit! (Minecraft) by Nick Eliopulos

 Mobs in the Mansion! (Minecraft) by Arie Kaplan; Illustrated by Alan Batson

 Trouble Brewing! (Minecraft) by Arie Kaplan

 "A MINECRAFT MOVIE Step into Reading"     – Amazon.

 Search for the Snowy Wolf! (Minecraft) by Nada Shawish Dutka

 "Calling all wolf girls! A rare wolf is joining the pack and she’s 🥶 and 😏. I’ve written a Step Into Reading Minecraft episode and it’s now available for pre-order!My own little piece of fan fiction come true 😭. Check it out!: https://lnkd.in/euhrei7CWith Mojang Studios and Penguin Random House Angela Song Paige Terlip"     by Nada Shawish Dutka  – LinkedIn, August 16, 2025.

Navigation