Contents

1 Chapter 8: You Can Always Count on Theo to be Right… and Then Right… and Then Right Again…
2 Chapter 9: I Tried to Make Friends with a Shulker Once, but They Never Come out of Their Shell!
3 Chapter 10: When You Think about It, Everything Here Is a "Fair" Price!
4 Chapter 11: Ender This, Ender That. Why Is It Never Tender Dragon? Those Would Be Nice to Have Around.
5 Chapter 12: He’s Not Named Principal Fair-Is for Nothing!
6 Chapter 13: If I Had to Put All My Eggs in One Basket, I’d Give That Basket to Eek.
7 Chapter 14: No, I’m Not Crying, I Just Have Pixels in My Eyes.
8 Epilogue

Chapter 8: You Can Always Count on Theo to be Right… and Then Right… and Then Right Again…
The next structure that Jodi, Po, Will, and Eek go into was a hallway that led into a huge dining hall, resembling part of a castle and using the same tricks as the cottage-style room. Not finding any puzzles or anything seeming off, the group go through a door next to the fireplace and head upstairs to another hallway that leads to a bedroom, with glow berries acting as curtains around the bed, and two arched glass windows along the right wall. Between the windows was a door that led out to a balcony in a hallway. After making some stairs, the group head down to another door to a room resembling a wizard’s laboratory, and then go through another hallway to a room that resembled a sleeping barracks for soldiers, complete with armor stands in the corners displaying copper armor and banners in a magenta and black pattern. Po feels like the rooms are going on and on, and Theo eventually realizes that the group are walking in a loop. Harper then suggests that they walk backward, and eventually the group find a throne room where the dining hall used to be. Will wonders as to how this would be possible as Jodi surveys the room with her heart pounding as she feels scared. Po then mentions about how the throne room would be just like how Jodi would make it, making Jodi feel like the Evoker King made the room as a test or some sort of cruel prank. Jodi then realizes that whoever built the throne room was in creative mode, as some items, such as the minecarts being used as chairs, were repeated. She says to the others to break every item they could and put the items into their inventory before moving on to the next room, and her theory was right as the rooms got smaller and smaller. Eventually, the third end crystal is found, and Po shoots it with an arrow. As everyone moves onto the next room, Jodi stays behind for a moment to apologize to whoever built the castle for breaking it, adding that it wasn’t just beautiful, but perfect.

Chapter 9: I Tried to Make Friends with a Shulker Once, but They Never Come out of Their Shell!
Will sees the next two end crystals already in the next room. Po attempts to shoot at one of them, but the arrow is deflected as the crystal is surrounded by glass panes. The room was four hundred blocks long and half as wide as the dining hall, and the group quickly realize that the room is a jumping challenge. Eek and Jodi consider building stairs, but the purpur blocks jutting from the walls turn out to be shulkers. Will and Po then jump across the platforms to the two end crystals. Po breaks the glass on his end crystal and fires an arrow at it as he falls off the platform as a trick shot, but it provokes the shulkers who rain down shulker bullets toward him. The bullets hit Po, causing him to levitate above all the platforms. Will is then seen breaking the glass on his end crystal, while also jumping across the platforms to avoid being hit by shulker bullets. At one point, he overjumps a platform, but a stray shulker bullet hits him just in time to levitate him back up. Po’s avatar then falls to its death as the levitation effect wears off, causing Will to take out the next end crystal with his bow and arrow.

Chapter 10: When You Think about It, Everything Here Is a "Fair" Price!
With Po kicked out of the game, he was free to help Harper with tasks for the renaissance fair. Harper gives Po a clipboard, telling him to stop at every stall make a list of whatever items are needed. Po also makes a metal note to get food for everyone as it was well past lunchtime, and helps Doc get more water bottles, the leather shop a pair of scissors, and an accessory shop to get connected to the internet. As Po sees numerous people from Woodsword, he starts to feel a little sad, knowing that his time at Ironsword Academy will be ending soon and wondering if he’d still be friends with Will. Po then finds the food truck belonging to his cousin Hope, selling sausage and fried turkey legs, and gets in line. He is then noticed by Wes, who asks him if he likes his hat, noting that he spent four days working on it by himself. The hat was hand-stitched, depicting a fantasy scene showing a dragon chasing a herd of sheep followed by a group of heroes chasing the dragon. Po says that the hat is amazing before Wes shows the shoulder cape resembling the classic fable of the tortoise and the hare, noting that he hand-stitched it all by himself over five weeks, and adds that he made the costume for a movie titled The Way to Teach a Dragon. Wes then comments on Po’s costume, remarking the detail made with cardboard, and the two get their order of turkey legs. Po’s was especially big, meant for everyone in the computer lab, and Wes then asks Po if he is alright. Po says that he is thinking about the future, and Wes brings up the commercial, saying that if the attention bodes well, he would get Po in contact with an agent, and also considers expanding the cast for potential future commercials. Po brings up Will, and Wes says that he plans to enlist him so the two can share the spotlight. As Wes leaves, Hope gives Po a bag of food to carry, and Po takes it before heading back to the computer lab.

Chapter 11: Ender This, Ender That. Why Is It Never Tender Dragon? Those Would Be Nice to Have Around.
Jodi, Will, and Eek go through the green doors to a room that is believed to be a thousand blocks in length, with the walls made out of end stone bricks and soul lanterns lighting a checkerboard floor of obsidian and purpur. On the other side of the room was the remaining five end crystals, all lined up. Will is skeptical about the room layout as he starts to tread forward. At first, nothing happens, but just then, ender clones of Jodi and Eek, aptly named Ender-Jodi and Ender-Eek, respectively, emerge from the shadows. Ender-Eek tries to go after Jodi, but is stopped by Eek, clashing swords before Eek is slid backward across the ground. Harper explains that the swords that the ender clones are using are enchanted with Knockback, and Kameron notes that the clones were only coded by the Evoker King to fight. Theo concurs, adding that the Evoker King said that Eek wouldn’t be able to make it through here alone. Will wonders as to who the other person is, and Morgan says for Will to help Eek, thinking that attacking the ender clone together will distract it long enough to allow Jodi to shoot the end crystals. As Jodi runs, she notices Ender-Jodi and tries to run past, but Ender-Jodi is able to build walls instantaneously, blocking Jodi’s path. Ender-Jodi then says to Jodi that they will never leave, asking them to turn back.

Chapter 12: He’s Not Named Principal Fair-Is for Nothing!
As Po approaches the door to the school, Principal Ferris appears, asking him as to what he is doing. Po says that Theo told him to get food for the robotics team, pointing to the bag of food in his lap. Principal Ferris is fine with it, but tells Po that the sea shanty competition is about to start, and they would need a captain. Po says that he’ll bring the food to the robotics team and come out right away, and Principal Ferris asks as to where his son Will is as he bites on a turkey leg. Po says that he is helping out in the computer lab as well, and Principal Ferris beams with excitement as he says to Po to tell the people in the computer lab to set up a closing ceremony for the renaissance fair, hoping it would resemble a grand finale of sorts, wanting to send the attendees home with a bang. Po says he’ll consider it as Principal Ferris reiterates to pass the information to Will.
In the computer lab, Jodi is trying to reason with Ender-Jodi, asking the clone if they built the castle. The clone can only respond to Jodi that they will never be able to leave this room and to turn back. Jodi continues to explain, saying to the clone that she knows that the clone wants her to go back and look at the castle it built, and perhaps build something on a grand scale with the clone. Jodi continues, knowing that she doesn’t want this week to end and that everybody around her is growing up, feeling worried that if she doesn’t save Eek, she wouldn’t be able to see her brother, Morgan as much anymore. Jodi still continues, remembering the old days playing Minecraft by just building and hanging out together, adding that she changed a lot and made friends with the Evoker King and Eek, teaching the latter on how to be a person. Ender-Jodi questions themselves, wondering if Jodi is truly able to leave the room they are in, and Jodi says to trust her as things will be better if she is allowed to leave, asking her to let them through. Ender-Jodi backs away from Jodi until it bumps into the wall it built, and then builds more walls around it until it builds a house. Jodi then places down some wooden doors, and upon opening them, Jodi instantly recognizes what is inside: a one-to-one replica of the very first house that Jodi and Morgan had built to survive their first night.
Ender-Jodi and Ender-Eek head inside the house and lay down on the beds. The stars in their bodies swirl and grow brighter, filling their bodies with a white light before vanishing. Eek then places two flowerpots beside the beds, placing an eyeblossom in each to remember them by, thanking them. Jodi then leaves the house and fires an arrow at the remaining end crystals, destroying them in a chain reaction. This causes the wall behind them to fall open, revealing the End and the ender dragon.

Chapter 13: If I Had to Put All My Eggs in One Basket, I’d Give That Basket to Eek.
From outside the castle, Jodi, Will, and Eek can see that it was built above the central island of the End. An obsidian staircase led down to the exit portal, and the ender dragon was seen circling underneath the castle. Jodi’s hand clenches around her mouse as feelings of relief and fear flood her head, knowing she was finally here, but could still not be able to save Eek if she died during the battle. As the ender dragon swoops down, Eek attacks it from the staircase by shooting arrows at it, while Jodi and Will attack it when it perches on the exit portal. As the ender dragon’s health falls down to 50%, Harper reminds Eek that the ender dragon is immune to arrows when it is perched, so Jodi and Will continue to attack it. Just then, the ender dragon spits out a fireball, which kill Will’s avatar and kicks him out of the game, basically forcing Jodi to do the remainder of the battle alone. As the dragon flies around, Theo asks Jodi if she has beds, and she says that she does, so he tells her to place the beds down the next time the dragon perches to hopefully defeat it. As the dragon perches again, Jodi places down a bed and clicks on it, causing it to explode, and the dragon takes significant damage. After exploding two more beds, the dragon is defeated and explodes with experience raining down on Eek as the dragon egg rests atop the exit portal. The dragon egg then cracks open, revealing a pair of dragon wings. Eek puts them on, saying that he feels free, adding that he can leave the server now. Will, however, asks him to do one last thing.

Chapter 14: No, I’m Not Crying, I Just Have Pixels in My Eyes.
Outside, the sun was setting as Ironsword’s renaissance fair was winding down. Jodi and the others told everyone to gather by the side of the school, which had a giant flat wall of stone and windows. Will carted out the projector and lined it up at the center of the wall. Eek then connected to it, and Will starts the finale. A small band in medieval outfits played trumpets and banged drums, followed by the sea shanty competitions joining in to perform a sea shanty as they are joined by Principal Ferris. As the music dies down, Will steps in front of the projector, claiming that he is Sir Knight, and calls out for Evokerius, a dark wizard. Eek, dressed as Evokerius, appears on the screen, vowing to destroy the heroes that Sir Knight brings to defeat him. Morgan and Ash jump out from a corner, with Morgan aiming his foam arrows at the screen. Eek feigns damage as holes appear in his cloak. Ash then throws a stuffed bear at the screen, and as a bear appears on the screen, Evokerius casts a spell to turn it into a stuffed bear, causing the crowd to laugh. He then transforms into the ender dragon, but Theo then appears dressed as a monk, casting a spell to cast the wings of the dragon in ice. Harper then appears, casting a spell to transform Evokerius back to normal. Jodi then appears with an orb in her hand, proclaiming that Evokerius can no longer use spells. Evokerius then proclaims defeat and thanks the others for showing the error of his ways, proclaiming that he will come back one day when the kingdom needs him. Jodi, Morgan, Ash, Harper, Theo, and Po throw up their arms against the wall and engage in a group hug before Eek shrinks back down to his normal size, saying goodbye to everyone.
Later that evening, Eek remains in The End, knowing that he would miss this world. He places a flower atop the exit portal and then falls backward into it. Just as Eek goes through the exit portal, the server he was on gets shut off completely.

Epilogue
One month later, the robotics teams of the Ironsword Academy and the Wilding Scouts went head-to-head in the national championship. Ironsword Academy got first in the aquatic challenge, but the Wilding Scouts took first in the flying challenge, meaning whoever wins the driving challenge will take home the national championship. After a few laps, the Ironsword Academy won the national championship, beating the Wilding Scouts by a few milliseconds. As the group celebrate in the cafeteria with snacks, Theo feels ecstatic about winning the nationals, although Harper says it was nothing compared to saving Eek. Po and Will are set to work with Wes Lionsdale over the summer, while Morgan is prepared to go to an outdoor camp with Ash in two weeks. Theo is considering developing a video game, and Jodi feels like she is ready to play Minecraft in Survival mode all by herself, although she also suggests playing on a server from time to time. Harper, Ash, Jodi, Po, and Will all agree to join the server if one pops up, but Morgan brings up Eek, and everybody falls quiet as nobody had heard from him in over a month. Just then, the robot car on the table started honking. Theo wonders as to why the car is doing that, so he hooks the car into his laptop. Minecraft opens by itself as an unknown player logs into the game, and the cursor hovers over the "Multiplayer" button on the title screen. As the others smile and nod at Theo, he clicks the mouse to open the server list.