Logo
Key art
Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue is an in-person interactive event run by Experience Mod and Supply+Demand, in conjunction with Mojang Studios. This event has participants in groups of up to 25 go through a mission and scavenger hunt through multiple Minecraft biomes and dimensions to rescue villagers. The first event took place in Dallas, Texas, from October 18, 2024, to January 20, 2025. Additional events have occurred in Toronto, London, Riyadh, Denmark, Mexico, Singapore, Chicago, and Germany, with two events planned for Austria and Shanghai. Additional locations are planned across the Americas, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. It was announced on May 29, 2024, the final day of the 15 Days of Minecraft. This was the first adventure for the Minecraft Experience.

Contents

1 Experience details

1.1 Additional Experiences

1.1.1 Adult nights
1.1.2 Family Fun nights

2 Summary

2.1 Entrance / registration
2.2 Forest
2.3 Village
2.4 'Explore' room
2.5 Mineshaft
2.6 Nether Portal
2.7 Crimson Forest
2.8 Nether
2.9 Brewing
2.10 Trading Post

3 Memorabilia

3.1 Minecraft Experience Cape

4 Times, locations, and pricing

4.1 Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
4.2 London, Great Britain, U.K.
4.3 Toronto, Ontario, Canada
4.4 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
4.5 Herning, Denmark
4.6 Cuauhtémoc, Mexico City, Mexico
4.7 Singapore
4.8 Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
4.9 Oberhausen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
4.10 Vienna, Austria
4.11 Shanghai, China

5 Cancelled events

5.1 Doha, Qatar

6 Videos
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Official artwork
8.2 Promotional images
8.3 Other

9 Notes
10 References
11 Navigation

Experience details
The event is an hour-long, interactive, in-person adventure where participants in groups of up to 25 go through a mission and scavenger hunt through multiple Minecraft biomes and dimensions to rescue villagers. Mobs such as skeletons and creepers can be encountered, ore can be mined, and ingredients can be foraged. Guests must cure as many villagers as possible using the ingredients they collect through their 9 room adventure. The world is created using displays in tall projection walls and floors which can be interacted with using orbs of interaction and motion detection. People will be exploring each room for six minutes, with the exception for the forest which could be up to twelve minutes depending on the attendance level.

Additional Experiences
Adult nights
At the Dallas and Toronto locations, every Wednesday and/or Thursday (Thursdays only at the Chicago location) after 7 PM was considered an "adult night", allowing only guests aged 18 and older. The event served several Minecraft-themed mocktails and held different "side quests".

Family Fun nights
From May 15 to October 9, 2026, at the Chicago location, every Friday after 7PM was considered a "family fun night", featuring the same side quests as the adult night.

Summary



Spoiler warning! This section contains detailed information about Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue that may spoil your enjoyment of it. Read at your own risk!

Entrance / registration
The experience begins with employees registering the Orb of Interaction for assigned groups and handing them to guests. Guests are then directed to a video led by Dayo and Tobin, two original characters created specifically for the Minecraft Experience, who explain how to use the Orb of Interaction throughout.

Forest
The first room guests encounter is the Forest, acting as a tutorial area for the use of the Orb of Interaction. Two displays allow guests to chop wood and fight mobs (in addition to Dayo and Tobin). Adjacent to the display areas is an interactive floor containing cherry blossoms and randomly spawned apples for guests to collect. Within the room itself are several life-size mobs that guests are able to interact with including two pigs (sheeps in some locations), an Iron Golem, a Creeper, a Chicken, and a bee-nest.
Crafting
In this room, you will work together and interact with life-sized versions of the crafting table, chest and furnace. You will be crafting  tools, weapons and resources (shields, buckets, cauldrons, doors, stairs, fences, boats, minecarts..) that you will be using throughout your adventure.

Village
Guests enter a room containing an interactive table featuring illustrations of 6 different villages, each containing a village within a different biome. Guests must interact with the screens to gather resources and build structures within the village, as Dayo and Tobin do. As night falls, a zombie siege begins, and the villagers become zombified. Dayo and Tobin explain to guests that they must cure the villagers using a splash potion of Weakness and a golden apple. They provide a list of items needed and their respective locations:

The swamp:
Brown Mushroom
Sugar Cane
The snowy biome:
Golden apple
Snowball
The underground:
Gunpowder
Spider eye
The Nether:
Blaze rod
'Explore' room
Guests enter a room depicting a swamp / jungle biome. Sugar cane grows along the walls for guests to break, which then spawns several sugar cane items that can be picked up. Brown mushrooms also spawn periodically on the floor. Near the exit to the next room, a Hanging Sign depicts how many of either item have been collected. A panda is also interactable within the room, causing hearts to appear when the orb is used near it. After a set amount of time, the room then shifts to a snowy plains / snowy taiga biome. Similar to the previous room, snow blocks generate along the walls for guests to break, dropping snowballs. Snowballs also spawn on the floor for guests to pick up. Chests on each wall also appear, opening to reveal apples and golden apples that drop on the floor for guests to collect. Similar to the panda in the previous area, snow foxes are within the room, also able to be 'pet' by guests, once again causing hearts to appear. Finally, the room changes once more, this time into an ocean. Chests are present that, when interacted with, drop gold and diamonds. This time, fish spawn periodically on the ground, but do not add to the total on the hanging sign. After dialogue with Tobin, an automatic door opens to reveal the next room.

Mineshaft
Guests enter a room containing two minecarts, a minecart track, and 5 walls where they must mine blocks. If players mine fast enough, they discover a block of TNT, which, when mined, explodes to reveal a further mineshaft that contains zombies, spiders, and skeletons.  TNT eventually appears on every wall, breaking all blocks and allowing all guests to see further into the mineshaft. Minecart chests pass by every few seconds, containing a random number of either spider eyes or gunpowder. After a short time, a minecart cinematic plays, and a new mineshaft appears that contains creepers in minecarts. Pigs and TNT in minecarts also appear, both able to be broken. After enough time has passed, creepers fall from above the screen on every side and blow up, marking an end to the room.

Nether Portal
Guests then move to a room depicting a Lush Caves biome where they must use their orbs to combine lava and water to make obsidian and build a Nether portal within 4 minutes. As the portal becomes more completed, the music begins to ramp up in intensity, until the portal is finished by guests or they run out of time. In either case, the portal fully lights up, allowing passage into the next room.

Crimson Forest
Guests walk into a room surrounded by mirrors or an actual crimson forest (location dependent) and lit by blocky lights (very similar to Weeping Vines). After guests have spent a combined 6 minutes in this room bartering with piglins, Dayo and Tobin explain the next room, The Nether.

Nether
Passing through the Crimson Forest area, guests find themselves in a room depicting the Nether. They must complete a parkour course over lava to make it to the other side, with striders appearing periodically to make it simpler. Just before an animated wall of smoke are several barrels containing snowballs (dryer balls) for guests to throw. The smoke then clears, revealing a scene of piglins defending a Nether Fortress. Guests are meant to throw the snowballs at them, knocking them into lava. After some time, Ghasts and Wither Skeletons appear as well, with the former shooting fireballs at guests that can be hit back with snowballs, and the latter being able to be knocked into the lava. Pigstep plays in the background during this initial encounter. After defeating these mobs, the screen then pushes deeper into the fortress, and blazes begin to appear. After some time, a giant blaze appears, which guests must work together to defeat. Around 30 seconds after the giant blaze appears, it will be defeated automatically, and the room completes, with a new Nether portal lighting up next to the guests to enter.

Brewing
In the final room, guests place their orbs in slots surrounding a brewing stand. A cinematic plays, with Dayo and Tobin using the ingredients the guests gathered to brew a Potion of Weakness (as a fog machine activates underneath/behind the brewing stand). Once the potions are finished, Dayo and Tobin throw them at the approaching zombie villagers, then throw the golden apples collected in Explore as well, curing all of the villagers. When the cinematic finishes, a total number of villagers saved (determined by the total number of items collected) appears, as well as several achievements with different gilds / naming (depending on how the guests performed). Guests are also invited to enter the trading post, marking the end of their journey.

Trading Post
Just before exiting the Experience, guests walk through the Trading Post, the Minecraft Experience shop. The shop sells regular Minecraft as well as exclusive Minecraft Experience merchandise. At some locations, there is a VIP (Very Important Player) area near the Trading Post, where guests who paid extra are able to get a few additional gifts.

Memorabilia
Minecraft Experience Cape
Cape promotional image
Players can receive the Minecraft Experience Cape by redeeming a code rewarded after completing the experience. The codes must be redeemed no later than 30 days after the event closes in the tour city where they were obtained.
The code is distributed using one of two methods; which method is used varies by tour city. In some cities, codes are sent by email after visiting. In other cities, codes are distributed on printed cards when the Orb of Interaction is returned at the end of the experience. Guests will not receive code emails from cities that use the printed card method; in those cities, the code must be collected from the experience.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Icon

Render

Minecraft Experience Cape

Cape

Legendary



			Printed code card distributed to visitors in Oberhausen



			Back of the card distributed in Oberhausen


Times, locations, and pricing
Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
The first event took place between October 18, 2024 and January 20, 2025 in Dallas, Texas. Parking was available at 2712 N. Central Expressway in Plano, Texas.
Tickets bought on weekdays costed $32 USD, while tickets for weekends and holidays costed $42 USD. VIP tickets costed $65 USD.
"Friends & Family Multipack" discounts and "Large Group" discounts were also available.
The rooms are 17x17x17 feet. One block in the experience is 2x2 feet.

Dallas

Date

Open times

Price

Mondays

3pm – 9pm

$32 USD

Tuesdays

Closed

N/A

Wednesdays

3pm – 9pm

$32 USD

Thursdays

Fridays

2pm – 10pm

Saturdays

10am – 10pm

$42 USD

Sundays

10am – 9pm

London, Great Britain, U.K.
The second event took place in London from April 4, 2025 to February 1, 2026 at Corner Corner, Canada Water. Bicycle parking was available at the Canada Water Underground Station.
Tickets bought for children ages 3-15 costed £20 (~$25 USD), and tickets for guests aged 16 and older were £24 (~$30 USD). "Obsidian Package" tickets were also available for £54 (~$68 USD). Children ages two and younger were allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 15 or younger must have been accompanied by an adult.

London

Date

Open times

Sundays and Mondays

9am – 6pm

Tuesdays and Wednesdays

Closed

Thursdays

2pm – 6:30pm

Fridays and Saturdays

9am – 7pm

Toronto, Ontario, Canada
The third event took place in Toronto from June 20 to September 14, 2025 at the Square One Shopping Centre at 199 Rathburn Road West in Mississauga, Ontario. Parking was available directly at the venue.
Tickets were available for CA$32 (~$23 USD) on weekdays, except for Fridays and holidays, in which they costed CA$40 (~$29 USD). Tickets on weekends costed CA$45 (~$33 USD). Children ages two and younger were allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 15 or younger must have been accompanied by an adult.

Toronto

Date

Open times

Price

Mondays

10am – 7pm

CA$32

Tuesdays

Closed

N/A

Wednesdays

10am – 7pm

CA$32

Thursdays

Fridays

CA$40

Saturdays

9am – 7:30pm

CA$45

Sundays

Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
The fourth event took place in Riyadh from November 1, 2025 to February 12, 2026 at Boulevard City at QJ74+PQQ Hittin in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Parking was available directly at the venue.
Regular tickets for the event costed 50 Saudi riyal (~$13 USD) and "Fast Track" tickets costed 100 Saudi riyal (~$27 USD). Only persons aged eight and older were allowed to enter.
The event ran daily from 4pm to 11:55pm.

Herning, Denmark
The fifth event took place in Herning from April 1 to August 23, 2026 at the MCH Messecenter Herning at Vardevej 1, 7400 in Herning, Denmark.
Tickets bought for children ages 3-15 costed 225 DKK (~$35 USD), and tickets for guests aged 16 and older costed 245 DKK (~$38 USD). "Obsidian Package" tickets were also available for 435 DKK (~$68 USD). Children ages two and younger were allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 15 or younger must have been accompanied by an adult.

Herning

Date

Open times

Mondays, Thursdays – Sundays

9am – 6pm

Tuesdays

Closed

Wednesdays

9:30am – 6pm

Cuauhtémoc, Mexico City, Mexico
The sixth event is currently taking place in Mexico City from April 15 to September 30, 2026 at the Forum Buenavista at Avenida Mosqueta 259, Buenavista 06350, in Cuauhtémoc, Mexico City, Mexico.
Tickets for the event cost MXN$550 (~$31 USD), with family packages available for MXN$450 (~$25 USD), group packages for MXN$400 (~$23 USD), and plus tickets for MXN$600 (~$34 USD).

Cuauhtémoc

Date

Open times

Mondays, Wednesdays – Fridays

10am – 8pm

Tuesdays

Closed

Saturdays

9am – 9pm

Sundays

9am – 8pm

Singapore
The seventh event is currently taking place in Singapore from April 24 to September 13, 2026 at the Mandai Wildlife Reserve at 80 Mandai Lake Road. Parking is available directly at the venue.
Tickets bought for children ages 3-12 cost S$44 ($34.50 USD), while general tickets for those 13 and older (referred to as adults) cost S$51 ($40 USD). Group packages and bundles for access to certain areas of the Mandai Wildlife Reserve are also available. Children ages two and younger are allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 12 or younger must be accompanied by an adult.

Singapore

Date

Open times

Mondays – Fridays

11am – 7pm

Saturdays, Sundays, and public/school holidays

10am – 8pm

Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
The eighth event is currently taking place in Chicago from May 8 to October 10, 2026 at the EXP Rosemont in The Pearl District at 9900 Berwyn Avenue in Rosemont, Illinois. Parking is available directly at the venue.
Tickets for the event cost $39.50 USD, with "Flex" tickets available for $49.50 USD and multi-pack tickets available for $36 USD. Children ages two and younger are allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 15 or younger must be accompanied by an adult.

Chicago

Date

Open times

Mondays and Wednesdays

12pm – 8pm

Tuesdays

Closed

Thursdays

12pm – 10pm

Fridays

10am – 10pm

Saturdays

10am – 9:30pm

Sundays

10am – 8pm

Oberhausen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
The ninth event is currently taking place in Germany from May 28 to November 1, 2026 at OBEX Oberhausen at Duisburger Straße 375, 46049 Oberhausen. Parking is available at Ruhrorter Straße 9a.
Tickets bought for children ages 3-13 cost €29 (~$34 USD) while tickets for guests aged 14 and up cost €37.50 (~$44 USD). Family bundles are also available, starting at €30 (~$35 USD), alongside group tickets starting at €33.50 (~$39 USD) and Obsidian Package tickets for €64.50 (~$76 USD). Children ages two and younger are allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 13 or younger must be accompanied by an adult (described as 18 and over). Thursdays from 6pm to 7:30pm are adult nights.

Oberhausen

Date

Open times

Mondays – Wednesdays, Fridays – Sundays

9am – 6:30pm

Thursdays and public holidays

9am – 7:30pm

Vienna, Austria
The tenth event is scheduled to take place in Austria from October 9, 2026 to February 28, 2027 at METAStadt Vienna at Dr.-Otto-Neurath-Gasse 3; 1220 Vienna. Parking is available directly at the venue.
Tickets for children ages 3-14 cost €28 (~$32 USD), while tickets for guests aged 15 and up cost €36 (~$42 USD). Family pack tickets are also available for €29.50 (~$34 USD) alongside group tickets for €32 (~$37 USD) and "Obsidian Package" tickets for €63 (~$73 USD). Children ages two and younger are allowed to enter for free, and anyone aged 14 or younger must be accompanied by an adult.

Vienna

Date

Open times

Mondays – Wednesdays

10am – 6:30pm

Thursdays

10am – 7:30pm

Fridays and Saturdays

9am – 7:30pm

Sundays and holidays

9am – 6:30pm

Shanghai, China
The eleventh event is scheduled to take place in Shanghai, China, in autumn 2026, with detailed location and ticketing information yet to be disclosed.

Cancelled events
Doha, Qatar
An event in Doha, Qatar was originally scheduled to take place from July 28 to August 27, 2026 at the Doha Exhibition & Convention Center in Westbay.
On July 2, 2026, the event was removed from the website. It was later confirmed that the event was "postponed indefinitely" due to "unforseen circumstances" for the promoter for that region.

Videos
See also: Minecraft Experience shorts





Trivia
Officially, this was the last thing announced for the 15th anniversary event. However, the following day the Minecraft Animated Series was announced, using similar branding.
While Dallas is the first official stop of the Minecraft Experience world tour, a beta of the event was held in Montreal on June 17, 2024.
Guests were originally supposed to go to the End, but the experience was considered too long and had to be shortened.
During the development of the experience, the producers mistakenly placed a silverfish in the underwater area, confusing it for an aquatic creature due to its name. It was later removed after Craig Leigh spotted the mistake.
The Minecraft Experience Cape's design was inspired by Two-Face, a villain appearing in Batman comics.
Circonflex, the music agency responsible for the sound design of the experience, had to manipulate, remix, and re-harmonize the Minecraft soundtrack to suit the venue experience. To be able to do so, Mojang Studios provided them a 50 page internal document on the game's music.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Larger logo variant used until September 2024



			Logo with producer information



			Event poster



			London artwork.



			The Orb of Interaction being held in the dark


Promotional images



			A promotional image with two characters and chests.



			Promotional image with a bee, a cow, and a pig.



			Promotional artwork of two zombies.



			 Three people in the experience.



			Ditto, but without text.



			An iron golem watching a pig.



			A pig excited for the Minecraft Experience.



			A closeup of the pig statue.



			Attendees completing a quest in a "one week out" teaser.



			A promotional image from the newsletter.



			Several players on grass and taking a selfie beside a creeper.



			Attendees grabbing their orbs of interaction.



			A chicken statue.



			An attendee performing a quest.



			An attendee fighting.



			An attendee escaping.



			Attendees hanging out.



			Attendees taking aim.



			Attendees celebrating.



			A Minecraft Live 2024 teaser.



			An attendee fighting.



			Attendees collecting resources.



			A crimson forest.



			A cave and a mineshaft.



			Attendees walking through a nether portal.



			A nether portal.



			An iron golem.



			An orb of interaction.



			Orbs of interaction.


Other



			The orb of interaction turning green.



			The orb of interaction turning red.



			The orb of interaction turning yellow.



			The orb of interaction turning blue.


Notes

 This deadline is very inconsistent, with multiple official sources providing different redemption periods. The terms and conditions mention that codes can be used within 30 days after the end of the experience, but the redemption page mentions 60 days, and the Toronto FAQ mentioned 6 months. Because of this, it is highly recommended to assume that codes expire within 30 days and use them as soon as possible.

References

 www.minecraftexperience.com

 "FAQ" on minecraftexperience.com

 "Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, May 29, 2024.

 "Un studio québécois à la conquête de Minecraft"     by Stéphanie Morin  – La Presse, June 4, 2024.

 "Minecraft Live 2024: Minecraft Experience | Villager Rescue"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 30, 2024 on YouTube

 https://feverup.com/m/588851

 "You’re invited to #MinecraftExperience first ever ADULT NIGHT! 🪩 This Wednesday and Thursday we invite all 18+ for themed mocktails and trivia as you experience Minecraft IRL! Join us from 7-9 PM! Buy your tickets now with the link in our bio! 🎟️ #MinecraftDallas" – @minecraftexperienceirl on Instagram, November 18, 2024

 https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31114589569805-Experience-Mod-Minecraft-Experience-Promotion-Terms-and-Conditions

 https://www.minecraftexperience.com/london/faq/

 "Surprise! Minecraft Experience will now be open until JANUARY 20, 2025! 🎇 Tickets are on sale be sure to use the link in our bio! 🎟️"  – @MinecraftExpIRL  on X (formerly Twitter), December 17, 2024

 "London calling… 🇬🇧 Gear up for a real-world quest at the London #MinecraftExperience: Villager Rescue.🎟️ Tickets go on sale Friday, 14 February, 10 AM GMT.🔔 Sign up for the waitlist now for early ticket access!Battle mobs, explore biomes and more: minecraftexperience.com"  – @MinecraftExpIRL  on X (formerly Twitter), February 5, 2025

 "London, the quest continues. There’s still time to explore biomes and help save the village before we move on to our next stop. Now extended until January 2026. Don’t miss it."  – @minecraftexpirl  on X (formerly Twitter), August 21, 2025

 "Minecraft is taking over Toronto this summer!#MinecraftExperience: Villager Rescue expands with another immersive journey - opening June 20thPre-Sale begins April 21 — join the waitlist: MinecraftExperience.com"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), April 15, 2025

 "Toronto, no detours here... you’ve got a few extra days to join the quest! Now extended through September 14th. Grab your tickets and be part of the adventure before we depart."  – @minecraftexpirl  on X (formerly Twitter), August 20, 2025

 https://webook.com/en/experiences/minecraft-blvd-city-rs25-tickets/

 "Minecraft Experience Herning"   (Archive)  – minecraftexperience.com.

 "Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue - Herning - Waitlist"   (Archive)  – feverup.com.

 "#MinecraftExperience: Villager Rescue is heading to Mexico City - Spring 2026! Explore biomes, craft items, battle mobs, and rescue villagers IRL. Pre-sale begins Dec 18"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), December 15, 2025

  https://feverup.com/m/575536

 "🎣 Looks like we've got a big catch.#MinecraftExperince: Villager Rescue is heading to Singapore April 2026. Step into adventure, interact with immersive biomes, and help save the villagers in real life.Pre-sale begins March 10."  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), March 6, 2026

 "Minecraft Experience Singapore"     – Minecraft Experience, March 6, 2026.

 https://feverup.com/m/533761/

 "Minecraft Experience Villager Rescue Oberhausen"     – Minecraft Experience, April 9, 2026.

 https://feverup.com/m/595217/

 "Minecraft Experience Villager Rescue Vienna"     – Minecraft Experience, May 27, 2026.

 https://feverup.com/m/657439

 《我的世界》 真人线下体验版，即将登陆上海！

 "Minecraft Experience | Tickets and Information"  (archived)   – Visit Qatar.

 See email reply here.

 "Nous sommes à la recherche de volontaires pour tester une partie de cette expérience interactive." – Supply & Demand Studio on LinkedIn, June 12, 2024

 "7 Hidden Easter Eggs in NEW Minecraft Experience!"  – Rays Works on YouTube, October 20, 2024

 "Bringing the Minecraft Experience to Life Through the Power of Sound"     – lbbonline.com, January 15, 2025.

Navigation