For other uses, see Shape Your World.

Minecraft: Shape Your World





Type

Short film

Music by

Douglas Haines

Date

May 1, 2024

Length

1:38

{
    "title": "Minecraft: Shape Your World",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Short film",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Douglas Haines article, displayed as Douglas Haines)",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 1, 2024",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:38",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Shape your World is a marketing campaign and music video promoting the 15th Anniversary of the game. It was uploaded on May 1, 2024, teasing the 15 Days of Minecraft event.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters

2 Quotes

2.1 Internal
2.2 External

3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References
6 Navigation

Summary
The video begins with an office meeting where an old man is explaining something related to company economics. A woman in the audience looks bored. Suddenly, a man with a guitar appears behind the old man and starts singing. The woman gets up from her chair and begins mining through the floor with her fists.
The scene changes to a boy holding carrots, luring a pig from behind a bush. The singing man is sitting on the pig, playing his guitar. The boy leads the pig into a fenced area. Next, the singing man walks through the reception of a building. Dust falls from the ceiling, and the woman from the meeting crashes through the broken floor and escapes. The scene shifts to a man running away from a house covered in TNT, connected by redstone dust to a lever. The man stops, crouches, pulls the lever, and the house explodes.
The singing man is shown riding a minecart through a mineshaft. He passes people working on Minecraft paintings and others dancing in blocky movements. The video cuts to a woman mining bricks with a pickaxe, followed by a boy wearing iron armor and equipped with a shield and sword, deflecting arrows. Another scene shows a woman chopping down a tree with an axe. The next scene features a car made of bricks and wood being pushed by the armored boy, the woman with the pickaxe, with the woman chopping the tree going to ride it. The singing man rows past them in a boat, playing his guitar.
The boat hits an elevated area, and the singing man rolls off. He stands up and finds himself at a wedding. The bride and groom cut a blocky cake with an axe. In the following scene, a girl presses a button on the trunk of a tree. This activates a redstone mechanism that opens the door to a treehouse. Inside, the singing man is lying down, playing his guitar.
Another scene shows a man falling from a great height. As he approaches the ground, the singing man spills a bucket of water below him. The man lands safely and continues walking. The final scene shows the singing man standing in the middle of all the people from the video, holding hands in a circle on a grassy plain. Large Minecraft builds can be seen in the background. The camera zooms out as the singing man finishes his song, and the words "Minecraft - Shape Your World" appear on the screen.

Characters

Birds (off-screen)
Block Breaker
Businessmen
Bride
Bridegroom
Businesswoman
Calming Narrator
Chicken (constructed)
Creeper (pictured)
Explorer
Faller
Fence Builder
Lumberjack driver
Miners
Pig
Pig (constructed)
Piglin (constructed)
 Receptionist
 Security Guard
Treehouse owner
 Wedding guests
Witch
Young Knight
Zombie
Quotes
Internal
“An endless world to shape, and you can make it yours. „ — Minecraft – Shape Your World
External
“Minecrafters have been showcasing their creativity for over 15 years, expressing themselves in more ways than we ever imagined. Discover your Minecraft and begin shaping your world today!
Legal disclaimer: Don’t ride pigs, get too close to molten lava, attempt to defy gravity, or experiment with TNT blocks in real-life. However, we encourage these activities (and lots more fun stuff) if performed in one of our popular video games„ — Video description
Trivia
During the opening scene of the video, a creeper mug can be seen, as well as a sign on the wall labeled "MINE HARDER THAN YESTERDAY."
Similarly, in the reception area, a sign can be seen above a receptionist, "Don't Dig Straight Down." A common mantra among Minecraft players.
Gallery



			An ongoing official meeting.



			A woman breaking the floor.



			A boy holding carrots to lure a pig.



			A boy luring a pig with a man holding a guitar sitting on its back, inside a fence.



			A woman dropping down after digging through the ceiling inside a building lobby.



			A man walking away from a house covered with TNT.



			A man holding a guitar, riding a minecart through a mineshaft.



			People working on Minecraft paintings.



			People dancing in blocky movements.



			A woman mining a pile of bricks with a pickaxe.



			A boy wearing iron armor and equipped with a shield and sword, deflecting arrows.



			A woman chopping down a tree with an axe.



			A girl pressing a button on the trunk of a tree.



			Sticky pistons retracting, pulling the attached blocks with them.



			A treehouse with a redstone door and Minecraft-themed banners on either side of it.



			A man surviving a fall from a great height by landing on spilled water.



			People circling around the singing man holding a guitar.



			Shape Your World logo.






References

 "Douglas Haines"     – Apple Music.

 "Shape Your World"     by Owen Jones  – Minecraft.net, May 1, 2024.

Navigation