This feature is exclusive to Java Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article is missing information about: Java version 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Minecraft: The Island (map)

Map maker(s)

Blockception
Del Rey

Price

Free

Release date

August 4, 2017[verify]

Article

"New on Realms: Spacewalks and Rad Runs"     – Minecraft.net.

Download link

Education version

{
    "title": "Minecraft: The Island (map)",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://www.blockception.com/ Blockception]\n* Del Rey",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "August 4, 2017<sup class=\" nowrap Inline-Template \" title=\"\">[<i>(link to Special:TalkPage/Minecraft: The Island (map) article, displayed as <span title=\"  \" >verify</span>)</i>]</sup>(link to Category:Verify article, displayed as Category:Verify)",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/new-realms-spacewalks-and-rad-runs \"New on Realms: Spacewalks and Rad Runs\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/content/dam/education-edition/worlds/The%20Island.mcworld ''Education'' version]",
            "label": "Download link"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "IslandPortal.jpg"
    ]
}

Minecraft: The Island is a map that developed by Blockception to promote the official Minecraft novel of the same name. It was originally released for Realms and removed at an uncertain time, but remains available in Minecraft Education.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 The Island
1.2 The Library

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Signs
2.3 Tips

3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Education

4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 See also
8 Navigation

Summary
The Island
The map begins with the player in shallow water, mirroring the opening of the story. On the coast is a sign, labeled "welcome to the Island! Find the cave!" Said cave is on the opposite side of the island, a downsized replica of the Island, behind a large hill. The cave consists of a flight of cobblestone stairs, slowly breaking up into andesite and iron ore, ending with a much larger cave, where Moo is trapped in the center of a lava lake. A series of signs explain the situation, and tell the player to complete five challenges to free her.
Each of the challenges surround the lake, with magma blocks scattered throughout. The first challenge, marked by the number 1 made out of gray concrete powder, is a small room. Several items are contained inside of trapped chests, including an oak boat, glass pane, pink tulip, iron door, ice, polished andesite, pumpkin, item frame, painting, and spruce planks. Nearby the items is a riddle, with the player being expected to place the corresponding item in a yellow shulker box. Once the correct item (an item frame) is placed, the challenge will be complete, and a sign will appear, revealing the number 3.
The second challenge is close by, visible by another set of stairs, and is centered around shooting buttons on redstone lamps with a bow. The first three are clearly visible on polished granite targets, while the remaining two can be best seen by climbing up to a nearby balcony. Once all five are activated, a green terracotta 4 will appear in the lava, alongside a sign explaining it's the "first number." The third challenge is a maze inside of a mineshaft, marked by another powder number in the wall. Littered throughout the maze are beams, debris, and cobwebs, ending with the player pressing a series of stone pressure plates. Upon activation, an exit will appear out a tunnel by a sign, revealing the number 8. The fourth challenge is a parkour course over wooden platforms on lava, ending with the final number, 2.
The fifth challenge is a culmination of the previous four challenges, in the form of a machine for inputting the numbers found over the course of the map. Once the combination, 4823, is input, an exit portal will appear, and with it several columns of water, creating a bridge of obsidian over to Moo. This concludes the storyline of the Island.

The Library
If the player chooses to enter the portal, the map will thank them for playing, and teleport them to an expansive castle structure. Upon entering, the player will be greeted by a sign pointing towards a portal back to the Island, in front of a library area. Between the entrance and exit portal is a chest, containing an excerpt from Minecraft: The Survivors' Book of Secrets, with a prompt to find all similar "tips." The second, an excerpt from Minecraft: Guide to the Nether & the End, is found not far off, beside a fountain in the center of the library. Surrounding it is a coiling stairway, illuminated by a beacon's light, pointing towards the location of the next book.
Climbing all the way up the stairs will lead to a second floor, predominately consisting of a large wool carpet. On the axis of the floor are four, smaller libraries equipped with brewing stands. At the south corner is the third tip, taken from the Minecraft: Guide to Survival, with the stairs up to the next section of the castle at the west. Above the nooks is a balcony, and above that a series of platforms, decorated with many different bookshelves, which can be reached by climbing up a ladder. In the center of the balcony is a statue of a cow, built off the beacon beam, with the fourth book (quoting the Minecraft: Guide to Creative) contained underneath it.
The final book is the most obscure, being reachable by climbing a series of barriers, marked by torches. If that isn't enough, a single red wool block is positioned near the first. The path ends with a hole in the ceiling, which segues into a garden, where the player can find flowers, mushrooms, and glass plants. In the center is an artificial birch, housing not a tip, by several pairs of elytra, as well as several signs thanking the player and asking to tweet at Blockception for their accomplishment.

Quotes
External
“In celebration of the release of Minecraft: The Island, the new Minecraft book, we’ve got a fun companion treat for you! Players enter the world through a beautiful library world hub, complete with books, spires, and a challenging ascent to the top. Leave through the watery portal to find yourself transported to the eponymous island, re-created block by block. Several challenges await as you attempt to save the island’s only other resident and your current source of companionship: a cow.The library in this map thought of us a gaming hub, where future official Minecraft novels can house dedicated, episodic minigames added over time.„ — Marc Watson's description of the map“First official Minecraft novel world and lesson!
Players enter the world through a beautiful library world hub, complete with books, spires, and a challenging ascent to the top. New mini-games will be released for each new fiction title. For Minecraft: The Island, find yourself transported to the eponymous island, re-created block by block. Several challenges await you in the caves below the island.„ — Education description
Signs
“Welcome to the Island! Find the cave!„ — Introduction“Your friend, the Cow, has been trapped on an island in the lava lake below! Complete these five challenges in order to rescue your friend before he becomes steak!„ — Instructions“I have memories, but none my own.
Whatever's on my inside is what is own.
If I'm ever different, it's because you changed me.
I feel like a decoration, here for you to arrange me.

What am I?„ — Riddle
“You made it to the top! Tweet @blockception with a screenshot!„ — Top
Tips
“A beacon is the most expensive investment you're ever likely to make, but the benefits of having one in your base are enormous. When mounted on a pyramid it provides a powerful light source that can be seen from afar, as well as a range of beneficial status effects when you're in the vicinity. To learn more key survival tips and tricks, check out MINECRAFT: THE SURVIVORS' BOOK OF SECRETS.„ — Tip 1, Minecraft: The Survivors' Book of Secrets“Cobblestone is immune to burning, and can come in handy as a building material if you're heading to the Nether, where destruction by fireball is common, or in the End, where cobblestone doesn't naturally generate and needs to be created by making a lava tream come into contact with water. To learn more facts about the Nether  and the End, check out MINECRAFT: GUIDE TO THE NETHER & THE END.„ — Tip 2, Minecraft: Guide to the Nether & the End“Found in veins of 1–10 blocks, at layer 16 and under, each block of diamond ore will drop 1 diamond. Diamonds can be used to craft the most durable tools, weapons, and armour, as well as jukeboxes and enchanted tables. To learn more mining tips, check out MINECRAFT: GUIDE TO EXPLORATION„ — Tip 3, Minecraft: Guide to Survival“A remote sentry outpost is most useful when positioned at a good vantage point, but in an obscure spot. The best location to place this build is on a high mountain. Create a flat piece of land in an extreme hills biome before laying the foundations.To learn more building tips, check out MINECRAFT: GUIDE TO CREATIVE.„ — Tip 4, Minecraft: Guide to Creative
History
Java Edition
Java EditionAugust 4, 2017
Minecraft: The Island is added to Realms.?
Minecraft: The Island is removed from Realms.
Education
Minecraft Education?
Minecraft: The Island is released on Minecraft Education.October 30, 2017
Minecraft: The Island is updated.August 7, 2025
Minecraft: The Island is updated.
Trivia
Despite oak trees becoming extinct within the story, there are three at the back of the Island.
Similarly, Moo is referred to only as "your friend, the Cow" and with masculine pronouns.
The map was designed to be a nexus for adaptations of other Minecraft novels, with the Castle hub even having placeholders for their entrances. Although there are other maps based off books, it's unclear if they were ever incorporated into the hub.
In the time since the map's release, many of the information featured has become inaccurate, even for media outside of the video game. Most notably, the Minecraft: Guide to Survival is referred to as the Minecraft: Guide to Exploration, its former title.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Key art.


Promotional images



			The castle hub area of the map.



			An altar in the hub.



			An area of the hub.


References

 "New on Realms: Spacewalks and Rad Runs"     by Marc Watson  – Minecraft.net, July 4, 2017.

See also
10 Years of Minecraft, another map developed by Blockception
Minecraft: The Crash, another map developed by Blockception, made to promote The Crash
Minecraft: The Mountain, another map developed by Blockception, made to promote The Mountain
Ben 10, another map developed by Blockception
Navigation