This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Minecraft: The Mountain

Map maker(s)

Blockception

Price

Free

Release date

February 24, 2021

Website page

Minecraft: The Mountain in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"The Mountain"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Minecraft: The Mountain",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Blockception article, displayed as Blockception)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "February 24, 2021",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=6ea14604-2215-4bf9-ad28-7ac47986aa88 Minecraft: The Mountain in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/the-mountain \"The Mountain\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "TheMountain Screenshot 0.jpg"
    ]
}

Key art.
Minecraft: The Mountain is a Marketplace map developed by Blockception that promotes the official Minecraft novel of the same name.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Foreign Land
1.2 The Mountain
1.3 The Ice Cube
1.4 Epilogue

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Internal
2.3 Books

3 Videos
4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Official artwork
6.2 Promotional images
6.3 Renders

7 See also
8 References
9 Navigation

Summary
The map begins in an info room set inside a compass, floating above a recreation of the Island, visible through stained glass. The player directly faces an entity of the book the map is based off, in front of the book's cover and notices of the book's availability. On the walls are promotions for the developers' Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube accounts. Upon approaching the book, the player will be propelled into the paper and begin the story.

Foreign Land
A narrator recaps the story of Guy, a figure who spawned in the ocean and has now left the Island in search of answers. Players begin the narrative in a boat, with only an iron sword, 28 steaks, an iron shovel, a compass, and a set of iron armor. The first objective is to simply go west, rowing through a cold ocean around icebergs up to a snowy beach. Upon making it to shore, the player has to climb up snow, where four zombies spawn and ambush the player. After defeating those, four strays spawn in their place.
Upon defeating the strays, a much larger group of monsters appear, the player being encouraged to flee. Crossing over a frozen river, players will stumble upon a weak spot in the ground, falling into a canyon. Behind a spring is a torch, which leads down a stairway to an underground chamber, holding a bed, furnaces, chests, bookshelves, and stone bricks. On an anvil is a book, a journal to be exact, which gives backstory to the area. Progressing outside a spruce door leads to a strip mined tunnel leads back to the outside, where the narrative player eyes lava, coming from the titular mountain.
Reaching the top of the mountain reveals the lava to be unnaturally wide, covering a side of the mountain, with a single poppy on nearby dirt. Digging the dirt reveals a lever under the flower, which when used triggers a cinematic revealing The Mountain, as the lava vanishes.

The Mountain
Behind the lava are a set of doors, which when opened reveal en expansive corridor made of polished andesite. Two levers are placed next to the doors, one reactivating the lava, the other turning on redstone lamps throughout the hall. Beneath an armor stand wearing gold armor is a second journal from Guy and Summer, explaining that they are giving the Mountain to whoever finds it, and that it has several tasks left to be fulfilled. A door on the right leads to a command room, with double chests, a fletching table, a cartography table, a jukebox, and tools in item frames. Another room to the left is a bedroom, with a brick fireplace with a display of chainmail armor and gray beds, a second journal from Guy alone sitting on the floor.
The player is tasked with lighting up the fortress, with a lever on a spruce log pillar in the command room and next to the door in the "luxury hotel" bedroom. To the left of the command room is a bathroom, with a working "hot tub," the light switch placed next to a Graham painting. Behind the workstations in the command room is a lever that opens "binds," in the form of gravel being pushed up and down by pistons. Beyond those rooms is a main chamber, three stories tall, with a light switch and maintenance switch next to its entrance. Going down to the first floor and passing by several indoor farms, the player finds a fully stocked kitchen lined with jungle logs, where a journal written by Summer is found. She tasks the player with finding 8 pumpkins, 18 melon slices, 32 carrots and potatoes, and 64 beetroots.
9 carrots, 12 beetroots, and 14 potatoes can be found in chests inside the kitchen, while 7 pumpkins are inside a barrel in a closet. The remaining crops can be culled in the nearby farm, the closest to the kitchen being melons. Upon collecting the required foods, the player is instructed to find 24 of each mushroom, which are found in a room on the opposite side of the main chamber. Entering the hall, players can find another light switch and gold armor display, as well as a double chest holding several unreadable books. The mushrooms can be found inside of a dark room lined with redstone torches, growing off stone. Passing by a chest full of paper, the player is brought to a chicken coop, where they must cull 5 raw chicken.
After collecting all the harvest, the player is ordered to enter the "Tool Room," which is across from the kitchen. Inside the Tool Room is another task from Summer, this time to trek to an igloo near a river for supplies. The igloo can be found west of the Mountain, identifiable by a chimney and well. Inside is a third journal from Guy, and then instructions to collect 3 rabbit hides, 3 raw rabbits, 5 muttons, 5 leather, and 5 raw beef, found in various chests inside the igloo. Upon collecting all the needed items, monsters will begin to spawn outside, including zombies, strays, and spiders, incentivizing the player to rest until morning.

The Ice Cube
Upon waking up, the player is ordered to investigate a mysterious room in the Mountain locked with iron doors, a pair of flint and steel appearing in the player's inventory overnight. Sure enough, behind the doors is a nether portal, with a third task from Summer below. Entering the Nether, the player will find themselves in a basalt delta, with a path of nether bricks and soul lanterns. Traversing blackstone and avoiding magma blocks leads the player to an expansive bridge, passing by a zombified piglin and at the end the Ice Cube.
Feeling a change in temperature, the player will try to loot the building, requiring 4 ghast tears, 8 magma creams, 32 blaze rods, 32 glowstone dusts, and 32 nether warts. Upon collecting the resources needed for potions, the player character overhears a ghast, and is so terrified that they decide to return to the Overworld. On the way back, the player runs into several piglins and piglin brutes.

Epilogue
Upon returning to the Mountain, a hidden area, the "Collector's Room" is opened inside the building. At the entrance are several hoppers, marked with items, and a final task from Summer. Upon collecting the book, the player is now allowed to continue the map in survival mode, with the incentive to find the needed items to open a secret door in the Collector's Room. The ideas needed include polished blackstone bricks, an eye of ender, quartz stairs, an empty map, a book, and a diamond.
The fetch quest allows the player to explore previously unnecessary areas of the Mountain. Advancing up a stairway connected to the kitchen and Tool Room is a master bedroom, with a jukebox, hanging lanterns, a map of the surrounding area, and a journal written by Summer of her perspective on meeting Guy. On the opposite side of the bedroom is an entrance to the third floor of the Mountain, which includes a potion lab with potted Nether fungi and an automated brewing stand. Close by on the stairway is a master bathroom lined with polished granite.
Upon collecting all 6 items, the chiseled stone brick door will open, revealing a treasure chamber containing items such as nether gold ore, dried kelp blocks, bamboo, and blocks of emerald. In several barrels lie uncommon items, such as coral, honey bottles, and bottles o' enchanting. At the end is a final book from Summer, and next to it a double chest holding diamond armor and a block of diamond.

Quotes
External
“A thrilling adventure map inspired by the all-new novel Minecraft: The Mountain by Max Brooks, bestselling author of Minecraft: The Island! Explore the world from the book and the mountain base that Guy and Summer leave behind. Defeat mobs, complete mini-games, and complete a scavenger hunt to unlock the rewards that will make their base your own!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description“When you go into the map, it’s way after Summer and Guy have moved on, so the mountain you’re seeing is not exactly as it was in the book. Actually, that was another huge challenge. I was two-thirds of the way through writing The Mountain and I sat down to play the game, and the whole Nether had changed, top to bottom! But instead of getting angry, I realized that was probably the greatest life lesson! When the world changes, you gotta change with it.„ — Max Brooks describing the plot of the map
Internal
“If you've found yourself here, then you may know about the strange, block-built world around you.
Our adventurer spawned in the ocean, all alone.
Learning to survive on an island not only taught them about this world but also about themselves.
And, if you didn't know that, now you do.
But enough of the past. Let's talk about the here and now.
Our journey starts with venturing west to find answers.
Where did our adventurer go? You'll be following in their footsteps.
Somewhere out there must be answers to my questions... your questions.
That's why you've left the comfort of the Island.

Who knows what you will find or discover? Here is where your journey begins.„ — Opening narration
“What are you?! At least you're not trying to attack me.„ — The player's reaction to Bacon Bits
Books
“Cold!
Again!
Digging wasn't a conscious thought, just pure instinct. How many times in the past had burrowing saved my life?
A short time later, I had a hollowed-out bunker. With cobblestone sealed up behind me, I set my torches on the wall, my bed back on the smooth, hard floor, and jumped right in for a good night's rest.

Safer and warmer.„ — Journal 1 by Guy
“Welcome to the place we called home. Now you may wish to call it your home. We just ask you to respect these walls and imbue your skills & knowledge you have learnt along the way into this space.
Before we let you have free reign of the place, there are several tasks that will need to be completed to help the upkeep. There will be signs in the room where the tasks are located.

P.S. the whole place is rigged with lighting. You can turn everything on with the switches on the walls. Cool right?„ — Welcome by Guy & Summer
“Body warmed and belly full, I slipped between the soft, comforting blankets of my bed, staring at the 'whiffy' fire as sleep wrapped me in protective arms.
"I'm not alone anymore," I yawned, closing my eyes,

"I'm not alone."„ — Journal 2 by Guy
“Hey, you've found the kitchen. Here we cooked up eveyrthing from rabbit stew to double chocolate chip cookies. We hope you enjoy using it as much as we did
We became entirely self-sufficient with our own crops & even chickens.
It might have been a while since any harvesting was done through so can you please go around to the farm, coup and mushroom room and harvest & replant.

You'll need these supplies from this chest to do everything.„ — First Task by Summer
“Hey, welcome to the tool room. You can see on the walls we have one of everything, from pickaxes to helmets.
All this takes a lot of work, and sometimes we have to go hunting & gathering.
I discovered a hunting igloo towards the western river where I used to stash supplies & rest before going out again.
I'm pretty sure there are still a bunch of supplies left there. Head over there and bring some of them back.
Becareful about going there near sundown.
It's further to travel than it looks...

Good luck!„ — Second Task by Summer
“Running with all my might, leaping in, slamming the door behind me, and looking in amazement at this tiny, semi-frunished room!
A crafting table, a furnace, even a bed and, wouldn't you know it, carpet!
White wool carpet I almost mistook for snow.

And there were windows, too. Windows of ice that I'd missed from the outside because they must have been blocked by falling snow.„ — Journal 3 by Guy
“If you're reading this, then you survived. YOU SURVIVED!
Against all the odds stacked against you, you made it out: not to get all soppy but we're really proud of you.
If you feel up it there's one final task to be completed in the mountain. When I was there, I collected rare items, all sorts of things.

A few of these might be tricky to make, but I promise there's an awesome reward if you get all 6.„ — Final Task by Summer
“Well, today didn't go as I'd planned.
There I was, out for supplies, when I stumble on a person hiding away in my hunting cabin.
A whole other thinking, breathing human being. Well, the blocky version of a human.
Boy, does he ask questions like it's going out of fashion. Did he not read the same books I did?
It was nice to show off all my work to someone though.
OH, I almost forgot, we gave each other names! I called him "Guy," and he called me "Summer".

I'm Summer.„ — Journal 1 by Summer
“This strange blocky world has taught us lessons we never thought we would learn.
We even have a Fresson List, incase you're wondering: a friendship-lesson.

We've learnt that the most crucial thing is not giving up on yourself & even more importantly, each other.„ — Well Done by Summer
Videos









History
Bedrock EditionFebruary 24, 2021
Minecraft: The Mountain is added to the Marketplace.
Trivia
Although never part of the map's narrative, Bacon Bits, a zombified piglin character from the novel, is present in the Mountain with a name tag and unique dialogue from the player character, reacting in horror.
Curiously, the character can appear as both an adult or child.[needs testing]
Although the map parallels Guy's discovery of the Mountain, down to taking the same route to it, the player character is an unnamed third entity. Similarly, the story of the map is set "well after" Guy and Summer had moved out, so it's not necessarily the same as they had left it.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Pack icon.


Promotional images



			Panorama of the map.



			The Ice Cube as it appears in the map.



			The lodge.



			The kitchen.



			The farm.



			The Mountain from a river area.



			"The Mountain adventure map begins with you tracing the same journey over the sea as Guy does in the book."



			"Soon after arriving on the shore, you’re attacked. Run for the mountain!"



			A view of the Mountain.



			"The bedroom Guy used is cozy - if you don’t mind sleeping next to a picture of a skull"



			Another view of the Mountain.



			A corridor in the Mountain.



			"Summer spared no detail in making her base, right down to the toilet lids!"



			The windows open in the command room.



			Maintenance mode in the Mountain.



			"Summer made an entire farm inside her base!"



			The chicken sanctuary.



			"In Summer’s bedroom is spectacular map of her mountain home."



			The book in the kitchen.



			The Tool Room.



			Bacon Bits in a nether wart farm.


Renders



			A render of the book used.



			An animation of the book appearing.



			An animation of the book opening.



			One of the billboards that advertise the world's release, in the world.



			Another render depicting the book.



			A book seen when dropped.



			A book seen in-game.



			The render of the compass used to navigate.



			The DLC's depiction of a command block.


See also
10 Years of Minecraft, another map developed by Blockception
Minecraft: The Crash, another map developed by Blockception, made to promote The Crash
Minecraft: The Island, another map developed by Blockception, made to promote The Island
Ben 10, another map developed by Blockception
References

 "The Mountain"     by Alex Wiltshire  – Minecraft.net, March 2, 2021.

Navigation