This feature is exclusive to Xbox One Edition. 



This  topic  is currently lost. 
While this release is known to exist, it is not currently available legally or heavily documented, and is therefore considered lost

Minecon 2015 Presentation Pack

A screenshot taken from a recording of the panel

Date Presented

July 5, 2015

Features

World template
Resource pack
Skins

{
    "title": "'''Minecon 2015 Presentation Pack'''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "July 5, 2015",
            "label": "Date Presented"
        },
        {
            "field": "World template<br>\nResource pack<br>\nSkins",
            "label": "Features"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Minecon2015PresentationPack.png"
    ]
}

Minecon 2015 Presentation Pack is an unreleased mash-up pack created solely for the 4J Studios art team's "Minecraft Console Edition - Making Mashup Packs" panel hosted at MINECON 2015 on July 5, 2015. The pack was designed for the Xbox One Edition of the game, and as such it's unlikely it ever appeared in any form on other editions. The pack features a custom texture pack, a world featuring the 4J Studios Dundee office, and skins of some members of the 4J Studios art team.

Contents

1 World
2 Resource pack

2.1 Blocks
2.2 Paintings
2.3 Entities
2.4 Particles

3 Skins
4 Videos
5 History
6 Gallery
7 Notes
8 Navigation

World
In the presentation, a recreation of the former 4J Studios office in West End, Dundee, Scotland was used to show where DLC for the Legacy Console Edition was developed. It features the complete interior of the office and workspace of the 4J Studios art team. Several members of the art team and chairman Chris van der Kuyl are depicted as retextured entities working in the studio.
Outside of the studio is a partial recreation of West End, Dundee. Through the main entrance is a decal of the studio's logo and a small reception area that leads directly into the first main workspace near a meeting room and a break room. In the workspace are several desks and monitors and a massive decal of the City Texture Pack menu panorama and a decal of the Xbox One Edition key art. The break room features a small kitchen area and a green cake, textured similarly to a creeper, the entrance to another workspace, and a closet housing the servers. Inside the closet, a carrot eating hamster in a wheel can be found hard at work. One of the rooms has been reduced to a massive firey pit.

Resource pack
A custom, but notably incomplete, 16x texture pack featuring office and urban style textures such as furnished wood, stylized cobblestone, sleek windows, and glass doors to recreate the office space. It also featured custom decals and artwork. Some blocks and entities were retextured but UI and items were entirely unchanged. This pack is the first apperance of custom animated textures ever seen in Legacy Console Edition, predating the first released pack to feature them properly, the Halloween 2015 Mash-Up Pack, by over 5 months.

Blocks
Many of the retextured blocks can be identified thanks to two brief glimpses at the Creative inventory during the presentation. The following blocks were not retextured: grass block, dirt, sand, sandstone, smooth sandstone, chiseled sandstone, block of coal, block of iron, lapis lazuli block, block of diamond, block of emerald, block of quartz, coal ore, lapis lazuli ore, diamond ore, redstone ore, iron ore, gold ore, emerald ore, nether quartz ore, bedrock, oak wood, spruce wood, birch wood, jungle wood, gravel, obsidian, ice, netherrack, lava, fire, soul sand, torch, poppy, fern, oak sapling, birch sapling, jungle sapling, and dispenser.
The exterior to the building is built of spruce planks, now sporting a lighter and furbished appearance with horizontal planks, gray brick stairs tiling the roof of the office, cobblestone and mossy cobblestone as two variants of horizontally and vertically tiled cobblestone pavements respectively, striped glass office windows, iron Doors to match the style of the windows surrounding it, and lastly gray heavy weighted pressure plates powering to enter the building. The 4J Studios logo in the first room is made of four retextured stained glass panes. White stained glass has been made entirely of one shade of white surrounding the 4J logo, and gray stained glass appears to have been retextured as an opaque variant to top the windows. Ice has been retextured to be entirely one shade of blue. The floor in the workspaces are a smooth gray block, while the floor in the meeting rooms is made of stone, which has been retextured into a smooth blue block. The walls have a smooth seamless white texture, and the ceilings have white tiles. Glowstone is retextured to appear as fluorescent lights held by glass panes. Flower pots have been made dark gray. Oak planks have been made vibrant and vertically planked wood, and jungle planks and oak doors have been retextured into a smooth wooden surface for furniture. Four stained glass blocks, have been textured to appear as animated computer monitors featuring a grass block being drawn on a blue background, Steve's face being drawn on a blue background, a player strip mining, and what appears to be a skin's face being drawn on a purple background. Three unknown blocks have been retextured into server blocks, all of which have blinking animations, and a fourth into an animated hamster in a wheel to power them. The break room itself features birch planks that have been retextured into cupboards, a smoother gray carpet layering the kitchen counters, and a cauldron sink with a smooth white texture filled with saturated turqoise water. Cakes have been retextured into a rich chocolate cake with frosting that resembles the texture of creepers. Two slabs have been retextured to resemble Xbox One and PlayStation 4 consoles, although it's not clear what types. Stone bricks and nether brick have been retextured to appear as green meeting room chairs and as comfy black chairs, sofas, and footrests all throughout the office, although it's not clear which one is which. Bookshelves have taken a more sleek design with black. Clay has been made into an unknown gray block that may be a drawer block appearing near bookshelves in the build, and iron bars have been retextured but it's not clear as to what it is intended to be, and it is seemingly not present in the build.

Paintings
All three 4x4 paintings have been made into the box art for Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, and Xbox One Edition respectively. Four 2x2 paintings have been retextured to recreate a massive panoramic decal featuring several of 4J's builds of Scottish landmarks. "Fighters", the 4x2 painting, has been retextured into a large television in one of the meeting rooms, a 1x2 painting has become a portrait of the Fidget skin from the Summer of Arcade Skin Pack, a 2x1 painting has been made to appear as widescreen monitor running a program with the Windows 7 desktop visible. A 1x1 painting has been retextured into a turned off monitor. The back of paintings have been retextured, perhaps only partially, to resemble the back of a monitor for the 2x1 monitor painting.

Entities
All of the villagers have been retextured to appear as 4J Studios employees: skin artist Chris Reeves, UI artist Julie Kennedy, artist Michael Hansen, and artist Brian Lindsay. The enderman has been retextured to be founder and chairman Chris van der Kuyl, emitting red 4J particles as he walks around.

Particles
As mentioned earlier, the ender particles, and by extension the generic particle itself, has been remade to be a "4j" and emits from various other sources such as torches, flames, and explosions. The color table entry for ender particles has been changed to red, likely the same hue as seen in the 4J Studios logo.

Skins
4J Studios employees had skins created for personal and private use that sometimes appeared in Youtube videos, social media profile pictures, and events such as this panel. These skins would reappear updated 2 years after this panel in the 5th Birthday Skin Pack.

Name

Minecon 2015 Presentation Pack

5th Birthday Skin Pack

Description

David Keningale

Art director on Legacy Console Edition

Rebecca O'Neil

An art intern that worked on Legacy Console Edition. She no longer worked at 4J Studios by the time the 5th Birthday skin pack came out.

Kate Wright

UI artist on Legacy Console Edition

Thomas Kronberg

Art team programmer on Legacy Console Edition

Tom Naylor

UI artist on Legacy Console Edition

Chris Reeves

Skin artist on Legacy Console Edition. The skin only appeared on a slide in the presentation and not in game.

Julie Kennedy

UI artist on Legacy Console Edition. The skin only appeared on a slide in the presentation and not in game.

Brian Lindsay

Artist on Legacy Console Edition. The skin only appeared on a slide in the presentation and not in game.

Michael Hansen

Lead artist on Legacy Console Edition. The skin only appeared on a slide in the presentation and not in game.

Videos



	Recording of the panel by ImScottJones. 4J Studios office tour presented by art director David Keningale and UI artist Tom Naylor



	Ditto. A breakdown of the skin making process presented by skin artist Chris Reees. The name of this pack can be seen briefly in the skin select menu



	Video covering the office tour part of the panel, by ibxtoycat



	Ditto by BigB

History
Xbox One EditionJuly 5, 2015
Presented at Minecon 2015
Gallery



			Art director David Keningale standing in front of the 4J Studios Dundee office



			Sole art team programmer Thomas Kronberg staring at a PlayStation 4 system at his desk



			UI artist Julie Kennedy holding a controller at her desk



			A monitor drawing Steve, a large decal of the Xbox One Edition key art and a poster of Stampy



			Artist Brian Lindsay holding a controller in front of several monitors



			UI artist Kate Wright in front of her workspace



			Skin artist Chris Reeves strip mining in Minecraft. Two large decals of the PlayStation 3 Edition and Xbox 360 Edition key arts can also be seen.



			The break room kitchen, featuring a delicious chocolate cake with creeper style icing



			A hamster in a wheel powering the servers



			Lead artist Michael Hansen



			Environmental art intern Rebecca O'Neil in the front workspace. A large decal of the Xbox One Edition key art and a massive panoramic decal featuring several of 4J's builds of Scottish landmarks can be seen.



			A meeting room



			Rebecca O'Neil in the front workspace. The 4J Studios logo on a window can be seen.



			UI artist Tom Naylor at David Keningale's desk



			Founder and chairman Chris van der Kuyl walking in a meeting room emitting red 4J aura



			The name of the pack as seen in the skin select menu



			Chris van der Kuyl in a meeting room with several clones of 4J Studios employees


Notes

 It's possible, and even likely, that this was not actually a world template part of the pack itself but rather a world built just for the presentation. Until more information is found, it is assumed to be a part of the pack.

 While unreleased, this follows the criteria for a DLC pack to be considered a Mash-Up pack by having a skin pack, resource pack, and world associated.

 Not including blocks that are animted by default such as water, lava, fire, and nether portal blocks

 Or at least not very noticeably

 These are stained glass panes because the monitors are translucent. According to ibxtoycat's video about the panel, the 4J staff confirmed that these were glass panes, but he also gets some details wrong in his video so take this with a grain of salt

 It is VERY hard to make out what is happening in this animation due to it consistently being out of frame or blocked in the presentation

 This texture strongly resembles the water from the City Texture Pack

 Acacia and Dark Oak slabs were implemented in the game at this point but not accessible via the creative inventory. It may also be the stone slab

 All of the plank textures, brick, cobblestone, sandstone, and quartz textures are accounted for already either by being untouched or already used elsewhere. Acacia and Dark Oak blocks were implemented in the game at this point but not accessible via the creative inventory

 This is a nod to Stampy's skin

 There is another 4J employee villager but it is unclear who it is meant to be. David refers to them as "a villager" rather than by name in the presentation.

 Or rather his skin, Fidget from the Summer of Arcade Skin Pack

Navigation