Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Title Update 19 Trailer





Type

Mojang machinima

Subjects

Legacy Console Edition 1.6.4 update

Date

December 18, 2014

Length

2:16

{
    "title": "Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Title Update 19 Trailer",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang machinima article, displayed as Mojang machinima)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Legacy Console Edition article, displayed as Legacy Console Edition) 1.6.4 update",
            "label": "Subjects"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 18, 2014",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:16",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Title Update 19 Trailer is a trailer promoting the release of the Legacy Console Edition 1.6.4 update released as TU19.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Navigation

Summary
On the back of a pig and with two others leashed to them, Steve enters a Wild West-style desert town. They leave their pigs on the fence of a bar, not knowing Prisoner Steve is planning to kill them. While in the bar, Steve hears their pigs dying and stares at Prisoner Steve, who eats a raw porkchop they collected. The former then angrily chases the latter along an alley and by a stable, where they stop to look at the horses. In the tutorial world, a large statue of a Minecraft logo is shown, and Steve, Scottish Steve, and Cyclist Steve run around the central fountain. In a jungle-side desert, the trio ride horses, before the scene shifts to a showcase of colored clay statues of a pig and a creeper. Then, Steve, Scottish Steve, Athlete Steve, and Tennis Steve ride on horseback across a desert. The scene shifts to a swamp hut with a witch and a bat present, then to a Nether fortress where the four fight a wither. Back in the Overworld, Steve builds a full diamond beacon as two level 1 beacon pyramids, one gold and the other emerald, are present in the background. Again to promote the addition of horses, two Steves (one armored in diamond and the other in gold) ride horses of their respective armor material next to the castle. On a village farm, Steve harvests wheat and throws it in hoppers while Scottish Steve raises a donkey and mules. As a fourth promotion for horses, Steve, Scottish Steve, and Athlete Steve perform a horse race in a snowy taiga. Outside the castle at night, Steve, Scottish Steve, Cyclist Steve, and Tennis Steve watch fireworks shooting to the sky, before the scene darkens to the credits and ironically asking if the trailer mentioned horses. The scene then brightens back, this time to a desert during sunset as the four watch the sun on horseback.

Characters

Athlete Steve
Bat
Black Horse
Boxer Steve
Brown Horse
Chestnut Horse
Creamy Horse
Creeper (statue)
Cyclist Steve
Donkey
Farmer
Mule
Pale Wolf
Pig
Priest
Prisoner Steve
Scottish Steve
Steve
Tennis Steve
Tuxedo Steve
Witch
White Horse
Wither
Settings

 Alley
 Bar
 Castle
 Courtyard
Desert
Desert Pyramid
Forest
Jungle
Mushroom Fields
Nether Fortress
Plains
Plains Village
Snowy Taiga
Swamp
Swamp Hut
 Stable
 Town
Navigation