This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

Minecon Live: Rush Race!

Map maker(s)

Everbloom Games

Price

Free

Release date

November 12, 2019

Tags

Mobs
Funny
Free
Cartoony
Replay Value
Fast Paced

Genre(s)

Minigame
Racing

Players

Single player (1)

Website page

Minecon Live: Rush Race! in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Minecon Live: Rush Race!",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "[https://everbloomgames.com/ Everbloom Games]",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 12, 2019",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "<div style=\"\" class=\"collapsible collapsed collapsetoggle-inline \">\n\n<div class=\"collapsible-content \" style=\"\">Mobs<br>\nFunny<br>\nFree<br>\nCartoony<br>\nReplay Value<br>\nFast Paced\n</div>\n</div>",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Minigame\n* Racing",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player (1)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=11629728-b15e-44ed-a1c0-9ede2244967d Minecon Live: Rush Race! in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Minecon Live: Rush Race! is a  Marketplace map made as part of Minecon Live 2019, centered around a race through various Minecraft locations.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Normal
1.2 PRO

2 Quotes
3 Video
4 Credits
5 History
6 Issues
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Official artwork
8.2 Promotional images

9 See also
10 References
11 Navigation

Summary
The map begins in a miniature hub world or info room, containing controls for the map and small bonuses. Below the map's logo is a picture of the fancy graphics and FOV Can Be Altered By Gameplay options in the menu, reminding players to activate them if not already turned on. Underneath that are several buttons marked by signs, including options for normal and "PRO" difficulty, and the ability to see the scoreboard for either. At the bottom of the wall are promotions for Everbloom Games' YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter accounts.
On the left side of the room is a promotion for Everbloom Games' other projects, in the form of a search bar with their name in it. On the right side is a link to their bug tracker, while on the back is a button to reset high scores, a notice to leave a rating for the map, and chests containing books holding the credits.

Normal
Upon entering the race, the player will find themself in a molten cave, surrounded by lava, magma blocks and black concrete. If they desire to exit the minigame, there is a button behind them that can end the match, but if they commit they can approach iron bars and begin the race. After the race begins and an announcer declares the name of the section, several creepers will fall down with parachutes and explode on top of a quartz bridge, turning it into a platforming challenge. The section ends by entering a ring of note blocks, leading into a room designed like the inside of a jukebox, where many parrots are dancing to a song, with music discs laying on the ground.
Exiting the jukebox leads to a magenta concrete tunnel, leading to a white horse. The name of the section is given, as many ravagers rush forward, while villagers cheer by jumping up and down on nearby bleachers. The goal of the section is to win a race against the ravagers, first being propelled by slime blocks up to a wool statue of a pig's face with wither skeleton skull eyes. Jumping off more slime into a sheep's head leads to a mineshaft with branching paths.
Above the two paths is a shepherd on a bridge, seemingly cornered by several zombies, with other villagers continue cheering in the background. The paths reunite near immediately, with the left going underneath the track while the right is a curve, the former showing a comedic sight of one ravager stuck bouncing between several slime blocks. The player will use a similar device to pass through a mock nether portal into fortress with red nether brick roads. Passing by a third set of villagers and propelled up by more slime, players will leave the Nether to enter a cave made of blue ice, passing by an enderman. From there the player will enter into a technicolor, swirling tunnel back into the raceway, now filled by several skeletons who all get shot by arrows and fall apart.
At the end of the raceway is Whack-a-Fox, a parody of Whack-a-Mole. Several foxes will sprout out of dirt, with players expected to hit at least five. If they hit chickens, which also appear, they will lose a point. Once the game is cleared, players can enter into a mineshaft infested with cobwebs, given a diamond pickaxe and instructed to mine a single stone block, "digging straight down." Doing this will send the player down an expansive tunnel, passing by mobs such as spiders and a witch, leading to a stronghold-like area where endermen dynamically build a portal out of stone bricks and polished andesite. Entering it will end the map.

PRO
Pro difficulty is very similar to the Normal difficulty, but with added difficulty. This version of the race begins very similarly, with the player in the same chasm, given the same options. However, when Creeper Chasm begins, the creepers will be charged creepers, and continue to fall down during the platforming. Once the player begins Ravager Run, they will be riding a pig instead of a horse, although without a carrot on a stick, behaving identical to the horse.
When the player enters the sheep head, the right path will be closed by debris, forcing the player to take the left. The path will now lead to a gravel wall, which will collapse and lead the player into the End. The area is a cross between the center island and End cities, with villagers continuing to spectate. A ravager will die, before the player enters back into the Nether. The ice cave and rainbow tunnel perform near identically, if not exactly the same.
The Whack-a-Fox reprise is similar, but harder due to a higher number of holes, effectively every single spot they could be on the walls. Once the player digs down in the mine, they will fall into a pool of lava, the narrator laughing manically and saying "never dig straight down!" The track will end the same way.

Quotes
“The race map from Minecon Live 2019! Can you beat the scores you saw on stage? How about taking on the PRO version of the course?
Normal & PRO versions!
Highscore tracking!
FREE! Gratis!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
“Never dig straight down! Mwahaha!„ — Narrator, PRO difficulty“Think you have what it takes to be the best in @EverbloomGames
’ “Minecon Live: Rush Race!”? To beat areas like Creeper Chasm, Ravager Run, or Whack-a-fox? Prove it! Get the map for free from the Marketplace and show us your best scores!„ — Minecraft
Video





Credits
Creative Directors
- BluCode
- The Redstone Scientist (TRS)
Project Management
- The Redstone Scientist (TRS)
Developer
- BluCode
Build Manager
- Tom van Berkel (Tober)
Builders
- Tian Figg (Ninja)
- Tom van Berkel (Tober)
Art Direction, Modelling, Animation, Textures
- Tian Figg (Ninja)
Additional Graphics by
- Max de Bever
Sound Designer
- Charles Vidro (Kwa)
Voiceover
- The Redstone Scientist (TRS)
QA Director
- Migeul Ledesma
Testing
- DBrogue
- FroggiesArmy
- K.Ledsma (Mrs Kitty)
- Kable12105
- Miguel Ledesma
- Mihro
- Nelson Nunez (ShonumShogun)
- Robert D Monroe
- Wolflovesanime
- Xantee1
- xQuickGlare
Marketing
- Tom van Berkel (Tober)
Studio Management
- Matthew Banks (Grumpy)
- The Redstone Scientist (TRS)
- Tom van Berkel (Tober)
Special Thanks
- The "Minebloom Live" Team
- Greg Wells (@Greggo)
- Developer of Blockbench (Learn more at blockbench.net)

History
September 28, 2019
Minecon Live 2019 occurs, revealing Rush Race!Bedrock EditionNovember 12, 2019
Minecon Live: Rush Race! is added to the Marketplace.
Issues
Issues relating to "Minecon Live: Rush Race!" are maintained on Everbloom Games' help desk and viewed here.

Trivia
If the player stays completely still at the start of Ravager Run, the name of the section will loop.
Each of the ravagers in Ravager Run have a distinct mob riding them and color coded area. The yellow ravager is a chicken, lime a mooshroom, light blue a brown sheep, and orange a cow.
Underneath the fall section is an old village, possibly used for testing.
Gallery



			Pack icon.


Official artwork



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Promotional images



			Panorama of the map.



			Creeper Chasm.



			Ravager Run.



			The villagers in the Nether.



			The rainbow vortex.



			Whack-A-Fox!


See also
WDW Magic Kingdom Adventure, another map developed by Everbloom Games
Rooted Together, another map developed by Everbloom Games
A Spirit's Journey, another map developed by Everbloom Games, made to demonstrate ray tracing technology
Dungeons & Dragons DLC, another map developed by Everbloom Games
Universal Studios Experience, another map developed by Everbloom Games
References

 "Think you have what it takes to be the best in @EverbloomGames ’ “Minecon Live: Rush Race!”? To beat areas like Creeper Chasm, Ravager Run, or Whack-a-fox? Prove it! Get the map for free from the Marketplace and show us your best scores!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), December  6, 2019

Navigation