"Griefer"
A girl is playing Minecraft as a griefer, destroying other player’s houses for fun. She decides to go after another player’s house that is made out of wood. After she kills the player with her sword, she starts placing TNT around the house when a mysterious figure appears, saying that if the house is destroyed that there will be "consequences in both worlds", referring to Minecraft and the real world. The girl asks for an explanation, but the figure suddenly disappears. The girl then sets off the TNT anyway, logs out of Minecraft, and shuts down the computer for the night as she notices a house burning right next door to her own. Later, after firefighters extinguish it, the girl is relieved to hear that nobody had lived in the house; her father specifically says that things would’ve gone differently if she hadn’t seen the flames. Just then, the girl notices the mysterious figure at the entrance to the house, but her parents don’t see anything and think that her mind is playing tricks on her. Later, in Minecraft, the girl then decides to make up with the girl that had her house destroyed, suggesting that she could build a new one using a different material or build one underground. The mysterious figure then appears again, but the girl that had her house destroyed says that she heard something despite not seeing anything.

"Changes"
A girl, later named Penny, says to the reader that her mom had said to her that puberty would bring changes to herself. One day, she wakes up with a grass block from Minecraft on her forehead. As Penny arrives at Jackson Middle School with a plaid hat to cover it up, she meets up with her friend Phillip and shows it to him in an empty classroom. She wonders as to how it happened, and Phillip says that although he plays Minecraft a lot, he hadn’t seen anything matching her situation. He wonders if there are any symptoms with the grass block, so Penny punches at a classroom desk, turning it into several blocks of wooden planks. She wonders as to how to get rid of the symptoms as she thinks that people will make fun of her, but Phillip says that she should find it to be fun to be different from anyone else. He asks Penny if she can open an inventory like in Minecraft. She does, and takes some diamond armor out of it, making it drop in the classroom. As Phillip puts the armor on, Penny also places down a block of obsidian and tosses out an egg, which hatches a chicken. She then tosses out spawn eggs for mobs such as sheep and cows, before thinking of spawning a creeper. Phillip warns Penny to not do so, but she tosses it when she hears his voice. A creeper then spawns from the spawn egg and explodes, seemingly killing her. Penny then respawns in her bed and calls Phillip from her smartphone, himself relieved that it wasn’t hardcore mode. Penny then suggests that they play some more, seemingly happy of being different from others.

"Saved by the Bell"
Cobb meets up with Flint at his house, with the latter wondering as to where Rochelle is. Cobb says that he last saw her the previous night hunting creepers to gather gunpowder, adding that she told him that she was going with Flint. Rochelle then shows up, thanking Flint for his help, but a creeper soon sneaks up behind her. Flint moves her out of the way just as it explodes, but the explosion destroys the bell at the entrance to the village. Cobb wonders as to what they'll do, and Rochelle insists that she'll fix it by finding a different village that is offering a bell to trade. Cobb is skeptical, wondering if the village they are in now will be attacked, but Flint insists on letting Rochelle go find one, telling her to find a weaponsmith to trade a lot of coal for emeralds, which in turn, the emeralds could be used to trade for a bell. Rochelle soon finds a stony shore, mining out as much coal as she could get, but the village nearby doesn't have a weaponsmith. A few other villages spread out over several hundred chunks don't have one either, making Rochelle frustrated. That evening, hostile mobs attempt to attack her, but she takes refuge in a nearby village that just happens to have a weaponsmith. She trades the coal in exchange for emeralds, and in turn, trades the emeralds in exchange for a bell. The next morning, Rochelle leaves the village, but notices a ruined portal nearby with a chest that also has a bell. Upon returning to the village, Rochelle says that she got a spare, so one bell is used to repair the entrance, and the other is kept by Rochelle as a memento.