This page describes an experimental feature in Java Edition. 
This feature is not enabled in-game by default and requires enabling the "Minecart Improvements" experimental data pack in Java Edition.

Minecart Improvements is an experiment in Java Edition that makes various changes to minecarts. According to developer Ulraf, the developers want to make sure they find a good time and a good approach regarding minecart improvements, because they don't want to break the things players have already made with them.

Contents

1 Additions
2 Changes
3 History
4 References
5 Navigation

Additions
Gameplay

Added max_minecart_speed game rule that changes the maximum speed of minecarts.
Defaults to 8, range from 1 to 1000 blocks per second.
Setting it to a specific value does not guarantee that a minecart will reach that particular max speed - there are built-in air resistances and similar effects that the speed added through slopes or powered rails needs to overcome.
This gamerule only exists in worlds with the experiment enabled.
Added a new accessibility setting that makes players follow the rotation of minecarts they ride.
Defaults to off.
Only has effect when within a world with the experiment enabled.
Changes
Minecarts now articulate their movement better when going fast, riding on the rail all the time.
Minecarts now smoothly turn along with the track and are less likely to halt or derail.
Improved minecart jumping.
They keep their vertical momentum when the track ends with a slope.
Minecarts now tilt to visually articulate while in the air during a fall with horizontal movement.
No rail grinding sound is played when minecarts are flying through the air.
Minecarts can no longer be placed within another minecart by the player. However this can be bypassed by dispensers.
Minecarts can now consistently be placed next to each other along a track.
Minecarts now pick up mobs more consistently when moving along a track.
Minecarts now more easily come to rest at opposing slopes.
Minecarts no longer phase through blocks on slopes when going up or down, they collide instead.
Minecarts are now placed (or dispensed) with the correct rotation straight away when put on rails.
Dismounting a Minecart no longer puts the player to the right of the Minecart. Instead, the player is put either in front or on top of the minecart depending on travel direction.
History
Java Edition1.21.224w33a
Added the "Minecart Improvements" experimental data pack.
Added minecartMaxSpeed game rule that changes the maximum speed of minecarts.
Added a new accessibility setting that makes players follow the rotation of minecarts they ride.
Minecarts now articulate their movement better when going fast, riding on the rail all the time.
Minecarts now smoothly turn along with the track and are less likely to halt or derail.
Minecarts now keep their vertical momentum when the track ends with a slope.
Minecarts now tilt to visually articulate while in the air.
No rail grinding sound is played when minecarts are flying through the air.
Minecarts can no longer be placed within another minecart by the player or a dispenser.
Minecarts can now consistently be placed next to each other along a track.
Minecarts now pick up mobs more consistently when moving along a track.24w34a
Minecarts no longer forcefully snap to the center of a block when landing on a rail.
Dispensers are able to stack minecarts again.
Minecarts now more easily come to rest at opposing slopes.
Minecarts no longer tilt during a short fall, or when they are falling straight down.
Minecarts are now placed (or dispensed) with the correct rotation straight away when put on rails.
Minecarts no longer phase through blocks on slopes when going up or down, they collide instead.1.21.1125w44a
Renamed the game rule minecartMaxSpeed to max_minecart_speed.
References

  https://www.youtube.com/live/2cxUNoWNy50

Navigation