Contents

1 Chapter 17: Jack
2 Chapter 18: Belinda
3 Chapter 19: Cel
4 Chapter 20: Belinda
5 Chapter 21: Belinda
6 Chapter 22: Jack
7 Chapter 23: Cel
8 Chapter 24: Belinda

Chapter 17: Jack
After hours of training on the first part of the obstacle course, Hero Crowe gives the group time to rest and eat before continuing it. Jack was feeling as if he had walked on the clouds, being the only one to make it to the second part of the obstacle course, but the thought of Hero Crowe intentionally poisoning him the day before still hurt him despite him thinking that he was his friend. Later that afternoon, Hero Crowe sends the group out to mine in a nearby cave, telling them that the better gear they have, the greater their chances of survival. Mara thinks that they could just get the necessary materials from trading with villagers, and although Hero Crowe says that some villages are nearby, he also says that the villagers won’t be able to help them when they are in a battle, whether its fighting a wither or a creeper. Cel attempts to talk to Mara, but she scoffs it off, saying that she doesn’t need any help. Belinda says back that they won’t help her, and Jack tells her that she finally understands that they are not here to make friends. Soon, the group come across a ravine behind the mansion, with Hero Crowe telling them that they will mine the caves below them. He then falls off the edge of the chasm only to propel back up into the air with fireworks and elytra.
Jack leads the group carefully down the side of the mountain to the mouth of the cave, and Belinda and Cel place down torches immediately illuminate it. Hero Crowe commends them for their swift action, and then goes over basic mining rules with the rest of the group, such as not to dig straight down and to always listen for mobs. Belinda leads Cel to an area with iron ore as the latter crafts a stone pickaxe, and Hero Crowe once again commends them for their effort. Jack snorts as he strikes the wall of the cave as hard as he can, hoping he would emerge the victor. Hours later, Jack had mined a zig-zag path deep down into the cave, hoping to find diamonds, and soon drops into a large opening. He is soon attacked by a slime, but quickly kills it, and smaller slimes spawn from it. Jack attempts to kill one with his wood sword, but it simply splits in two. He then runs into a nearby tunnel, but his torches and the entrance to the cave were gone; the latter was sealed in place by a cobblestone block. Jack scoots back as he tries to escape the oncoming slimes.

Chapter 18: Belinda
Belinda’s arms burn as the tunnel she mines wavers before her eyes. She could hear Cel’s work in the tunnel beside her, and Belinda soon falls into the same cave that Jack was in as her palms become covered in slick goo belonging to a slime. She follows the trail of goo deeper into the cave, but someone bumps into her, making her scream. Belinda soon recognizes the person as Jack, wondering as to what had gotten into him, but Jack says that they need to go as there is no time to wait. Belinda then notices a massive green slime coming after them, and as she and Jack turn around, another giant slime lands in front of them. Belinda goes after it, only for it to spawn in smaller pieces. Jack believes that she is making it worse, but Belinda says that the slimes would be easier to defeat if they continue splitting them into smaller pieces. She and Jack take down the remaining slimes in front of them with ease, and then they sprint through the cave, switching positions whenever they can. Belinda trips over a stone block, injuring her knee, and is about to take a bite of her apple before hearing Jack scream, so she rushes over to him only to find him cornered by even more slimes. Belinda attempts to attack them, but a slime jumps onto her injured knee. Someone drives a sword down the middle of that slime, covering Belinda in green goo, and she is only able to see a purple hue before collapsing.

Chapter 19: Cel
The next morning, Hero Crowe and the group are back in the woodland mansion. Hero Crowe rings a bell to wake the group up. Cel gets dressed quickly, and Hero Crowe rings the bell again to wake Mara up, while Jack is sitting on his bed, unable to sleep. Cel asks as to if today would involve crafting weapons or taking another test, and Hero Crowe says that the group is not ready with Belinda still recovering. Mara starts to argue about it not being fair, but Hero Crowe stands his ground, adding that if Belinda does not wake up by the end of the day, she will be disqualified and forced to head home. Cel’s heart clenches at this development, but after Hero Crowe says that today would focus on upgrading their weapons to prepare for clearing the second floor, her heart soars, but the joy quickly fades as Belinda is still in bed. Hero Crowe then heads to a room with a single chest in the middle, followed by Mara, then Jack, and then Cel, who gives Belinda’s hand a tight squeeze as she follows behind Jack. In the room, he asks if anyone knows what is needed to make an iron sword. Mara says that it takes "three iron ingots and a stick"  [sic], but Hero Crowe says that something important is missing. Cel quips that a furnace is needed, and Hero Crowe, warning that he’d only do it once, shows the group how to craft one. Mara nudges into Cel’s shoulder to distract her, and after the latter says she missed something, Hero Crowe reiterates that he’d only show how to craft it once. Cel then attempts to craft a furnace, but Mara takes over at her own crafting table and crafts one like a show-off.
Cel then takes a deep breath and carefully crafts her furnace, following by smelting the iron she had collected and using the ingots to craft an iron sword. Jack and Mara craft a complete set of iron armor, and although Cel considers crafting her own set, she decides to craft something special to calm her mind from thinking about Belinda. A creeper then sneaks inside the room, and Mara dashes out of the room, leaving Jack stuck with Cel. As the creeper flashes, Cel reaches into her pocket to grab a bucket of water, hurling it at the creeper just before it explodes. Jack commends her for using the water on the creeper as it absorbed the explosion. Hero Crowe also commends Cel and gives her an emerald. Mara and Cel then argue about being careful, with Mara quipping to Cel that she has an enchanted golden apple. Cel then heads back to the main bedroom, hoping to use the enchanted golden apple to restore Belinda to full health, but when she opens her chest, the enchanted golden apple is nowhere to be found.

Chapter 20: Belinda
Just then, Belinda’s eyes flutter open, still thinking that she is in the cave with Jack and the slimes, but Cel rushes over to her to calm her down. Belinda thinks that she can never be an adventurer under Hero Crowe, but Cel says that because she fortunately woke up today, she is still eligible to compete. Cel then talks about the lesson that happened today before showing off the iron sword she had crafted. Belinda is amazed at the sight of it and hopes to be learned on how to smelt iron, but she soon realizes that her iron is gone. Cel then gives her another iron sword she crafted, followed by iron boots, and Belinda thanks her tremendously, saying to her that she should never deal with Mara and Jack again. Belinda then puts back on her leather armor, now with iron boots, just before Jack storms in, accusing Belinda of leaving him in the cave with the slimes to die. Belinda vehemently denies the accusation, but Jack also accuses her of stealing Cel’s enchanted golden apple. Belinda once again denies it, but Jack says that he’ll prove that she is a cheater and a thief. Belinda reaches for Jack, but he storms out of the room just as Hero Crowe rings the bell.
Belinda and Cel then decide to head over to Hero Crowe, and he is back outside at the obstacle course. He once again goes through the obstacle course with ease, showing the group about placing blocks in the last section to make jumps easier. After asking as to who will go first, Belinda raises her hand, but Mara and Jack step in front of her to go first, making Belinda believe that the two are ganging up on her. Mara goes first, going across the floating platforms and the ladder jumps with ease, but on the last section, she loses her footing and falls into the water. Belinda goes up next, and she makes it the farthest before Mara once again accuses her of leaving Jack in the cave, causing her to lose her footing and fall into the water. The group continue on the obstacle course until they all complete it, and Mara tells Jack that Belinda is struggling because of the accusations against her. Cel tells Mara to leave Belinda alone, and Belinda says that what really matters is the treasure chest, knowing that Hero Crowe decides as to who gets it. Hero Crowe affirms Belinda’s belief, adding that today, each one of them will clear the second floor of the woodland mansion, hinting that they could be attacking someone new. As Hero Crowe heads back to the mansion, Jack and Mara murmur to themselves, believing that Belinda is a cheater and a coward.

Chapter 21: Belinda
The group then start clearing out the second floor of the woodland mansion. Belinda teams with Cel, while Jack teams with Mara. Belinda and Cel start clearing out one area of the hallway, lighting it up with torches and with no hostile mobs to be found, even though Belinda is holding her iron sword as tightly as she can. She finds a chest in an upper part of the room, placing down blocks to reach the ladder next to it. Climbing up to the chest and opening, Belinda yelps in delight as she grabs an iron ingot. Cel, Mara, and Jack mishear the yelp as a cry for help as Belinda runs out of the room. Mara then heads up to the chest only to find nothing, and she storms out in a huff to the neighboring room, which was unlit and had hostile mobs in it. Jack and Cel take down the zombies; the latter helped Belinda after she got hit by one. A spider is then heard, making Belinda spooked. Jack attacks the spider, and Mara offers to kill it for the golden ingot Belinda found. Out of spite, Belinda gives Mara the ingot, who then kills the spider with an arrow strike. Hero Crowe applauds the four for their effort and decides to call it a night before continuing tomorrow. As the group head back down to their base on the first floor, Belinda feels like her disappointment is growing, feeling like she needs to go at the hostile mobs alone to prove herself. Later that night, as everyone else is asleep, Belinda quietly puts on her gear and opens the door, making sure that Hero Crowe couldn’t be seen or heard. She finds an unlit room and places down torches, and then starts to head back to the base when she notices Jack creeping up the stairs to the second floor. As Belinda ducks out of his view, she feels like that he is up to no good.

Chapter 22: Jack
Going back a bit, Jack wakes up with one eye open in the base, still believing that Belinda may be up to no good. He quietly sets up his bed, using a couple of tunics as makeshift arms and legs, and then sneaks out the base with his iron sword in hand. As Jack looks for Belinda, he notices a hooded figure dash up the steps, so he decides to head up there, only to find the hooded figure disappear into a nearby room. As he neared the doorway, Belinda calls his name from behind him, making Jack freeze and stumble backward, causing him to hit a tripwire, which makes trapdoors open beneath him, and he falls into a dispenser trap. The splash potions in the dispensers pelt Jack with Nausea, and Belinda quickly places down blocks to get him out. Through the pain, Jack is now certain that Belinda is not the saboteur, and instead thinks it’s either Mara or Hero Crowe. Belinda dismisses the idea that it could be Mara, but thinks back on Hero Crowe for a moment, wondering if he would steal stuff from anybody. Jack says that Hero Crowe is reckless, and Belinda attempts to dismiss it again as a rumor. Jack says that it most certainly isn’t, mentioning how he got poisoned by Hero Crowe with a pufferfish. Belinda concludes that they would need to tell Hero Crowe about it, as he is the only adult. Jack tells Belinda not to as they can’t wander the woodland mansion at night just as a shadow sweeps over and blankets them.

Chapter 23: Cel
Cel steps into the light of the shadow, startling Jack and Belinda at first. Cel says that she left the room as she noticed Jack sneak out and that Belinda wasn’t in the room, asking both of them if they are OK. Jack accuses Cel of making the pit he fell into, and she sheepishly denies it. Belinda tells Jack that Cel has been her friend from the beginning of this ordeal, and Cel mentions that her enchanted golden apple was stolen, wondering as to why, if it was plausible, for her to steal her own stuff. Jack attempts to say something, but Belinda shuts it down quickly, saying that they would need to investigate who the thief was. Jack talks about getting rid of the Nausea he has, and Cel says that she knows that milk reverses all effects, adding that she always carries a few buckets of milk with her. She gives one to Jack, who chugs it down, and the Nausea disappears almost immediately. He then apologizes to her for accusing her, and then asks Belinda as to what they’ll do about the hooded figure if they don’t tell Hero Crowe about it. Belinda simply says that they’ll find the figure instead.

Chapter 24: Belinda
Cel then says that she’ll be heading back to the base, adding that she’ll do her best to stall if Mara wakes up or if Hero Crowe comes by with a surprise lesson. She then leaves, and Jack and Belinda start going through the remainder of the second floor. The two find a room containing a cobblestone structure with a tulip, and then another room containing prison cells. Two vindicators then appear and attack them, causing Belinda to inadvertently pull a lever to open the door of one of the prison cells. She and Jack head inside and Belinda places down cobblestone to block the doorway as Jack notices that the prisoners are allays, believing that the vindicators locked them up in here. Belinda thinks it could still be the hooded figure as she comes up with a plan to free the allays: bring a vindicator into the cell and kill it, and then do the same with the other one, before opening the rest of the cells to free the remaining ones. The plan works perfectly, with one dropping an iron axe, and the other dropping an emerald. Belinda considers splitting the items with Jack, but he politely refuses, stating that he and her are not friends and that he doesn’t deserve anything. The two then leave the room and head to the staircase, only to notice Hero Crowe at the foot of them.