For the fictional version in Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two, see Story Mode:The Survivors' Book of Secrets.

Minecraft: The Survivors' Book of Secrets

Author(s)

Stephanie Milton

Illustrator(s)

Joe McLaren

Language

English

Genre(s)

Unfiction
Guidebook

Publisher

Random House Worlds

Release date

August 9, 2016

Pages

112

ISBN

9780399593208

{
    "title": "Minecraft: The Survivors' Book of Secrets",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Stephanie Milton article, displayed as Stephanie Milton)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Joe McLaren article, displayed as Joe McLaren)",
            "label": "Illustrator(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Unfiction\n* Guidebook",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Random House Worlds",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "August 9, 2016",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "112",
            "label": "Pages"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Special:BookSources/9780399593208 article, displayed as 9780399593208)",
            "label": "ISBN"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: The Survivors' Book of Secrets is a miniature Minecraft guidebook authored by Mojang Studios that tries to explain game mechanics through the lens of a hand-inked journal.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Contents

2.1 Briefing
2.2 Combat on the Home Front
2.3 Combat in the Field
2.4 Debriefing

3 Quotes
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Pages
5.3 Photographs
5.4 In other media

6 Navigation

Synopsis
“An all-new official Minecraft™ guidebook full of tips to fend off mobs and withstand the wild!
This official Minecraft™ book contains the collective knowledge of the Survivors: an underground group of Minecraft™ experts who have been around since the days of Alpha.
You’re probably wondering why you’ve never heard of us. It’s because we’re THAT good. We’re experts at covert ops. Misdirection is our middle name. We’re invisible up until the exact moment we want you to see us. . . . Our successes are undeniably impressive: we’ve battled the Overworld mobs, dealt with enemy factions and defeated the ender dragon multiple times.
Study this book carefully and you just might manage to stay alive as long as we have.

THE CHIEF„
Contents
Each page consists of gameplay tips for versions of Minecraft available at the time of publication, with ink drawn illustrations made to evoke a personal journal or training manual. As a framing device, certain pages (typically the openings of chapters or introductions to important topics) will allude to a group of "Survivors," the chief of which has written the book for the next generation of heroes.

Briefing
Directive, 2
Conventional Weapons and Armour – A Survival Expert's Essentials, 4
Practical Munitions – What to Do When You Have No Actual Weapons – 6
Weapon Access and Storage, 8
Combat on the Home Front
Base Design, 12
Outer Defense – Defending Your Territory, 18
The Ultimate Defense System, 24
Defense Features, 26
Base Layout, 30
If Your Walls Are Breached, 36
Combat in the Field
Owning the Overworld, 42
Know Your Enemy – Hostile Mobs, 44
Player Versus Player Combat – On the Offensive, 58
Winning Combos, 62
Player Versus Player Combat – Defensive Strategies, 68
Dominating Down Under, 70
The End Game, 76
End Exploration, 80
Pro Challenge – Speed Run to the End
Debriefing
Final Notes, 89
Quotes
“A beacon is the most expensive investment you're ever likely to make, but the benefits of having one in your base are enormous. When mounted on a pyramid it provides a powerful light source that can be seen from afar, as well as a range of beneficial status effects when you're in the vicinity. To learn more key survival tips and tricks, check out MINECRAFT: THE SURVIVORS' BOOK OF SECRETS.„ — Excerpt featured in Minecraft: The Island
“This one is called "The Survivor's Book of Secrets." Okay, secrets are good.„ — Jesse looking at the book in Fred's house
“"This book contains the collective knowledge of the Survivors. We're an underground group of survival experts who have been around since the early days." It goes on. Signed by "The Chief." „ — Jesse reading the book's synopsis
Trivia
Each chapter is accented with a Latin phrase, with a minuscule caption translating the terminology into English.
Briefing has SEMPER PARATUS, meaning "always prepared".
Combat on the Home Front has SI VIS PACEM PARA BELLUM, meaning "if you want peace, prepare for war".
Combat in the Field has VENIMUS VIDIMUS VICIMUS, meaning "we came, we saw, we conquered".
Debriefing has VERBA VOLANT SCRIPTA MANENT, meaning "spoken words fly away, written words remain".
A running gag throughout the book is that helmets are used to convey emotions on faceless figures, with their brims being used akin to eyebrows.
During the foreword, the phrase "a block and a hard place" is used, as a pun on the common saying "stuck between a rock and a hard place". This same phrase would later become the name of an episode of Minecraft: Story Mode.
The book appears in Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two as one of the books in Fred's house.
The book in the game avoided mentioning the terms "Minecraft" and "Alpha".
Gallery
Official artwork



			Cover of the journal



			The book's profile



			A promotional banner for the book


















Pages



			Pages 24–25



			Earlier version of pages 24–25



			Pages 26–27



			Pages 28–29



			Also pages 28–29



			Pages 70–71


Photographs










































In other media



			The book as it appears in Minecraft: Story Mode



			The opened state of the book



			Jesse reading the cover of the book



			The location of The Survivors' Book of Secrets in Fred's house


Navigation



This was a featured article from June 2, 2025 – June 8, 2025. 
See Minecraft Wiki:Featured articles for more information.