Contents

1 Chapter 16
2 Notes from EnderMirr
3 Chapter 17
4 Chapter 18
5 Chapter 19
6 Chapter 20
7 Chapter 21
8 Notes from EnderMirr
9 Chapter 22

Chapter 16
It was Saturday. Nzinga and Mir are heading down to the basement, and Mir quickly calls dibs on getting on the computer first. He considers joining the Honeysuckle Dreams server, but after Nzinga says to him to wait because Jannah asked them to wait, Mir eventually relents and joins The Sanctuary, talking to himself. As Nzinga envisions talking with The Crafties, Mir soon snaps her out of her daydream by saying to himself that she smiles like an NPC, hoping to get her to join him. Nzinga decides to play along, knowing she isn’t one to stop Mir from having a turn.

Notes from EnderMirr
Mir continues, saying that the computer in the basement only allows one person at a time. He comments about the villagers at his farm making it grow, and then about Nzinga’s time playing on the server, recollecting when she respawned in her bed and taking out some wood before heading over to Mir’s mansion and taking a few items from a chest. Nzinga is then seen walking away from the village into a plains biome as Mir comments on a build that Jannah had made, and Mir then questions Nzinga on why she is headed that way.

Chapter 17
Nzinga asks herself as to why Jannah was playing on The Sanctuary as the image of the build that Jannah made go through her mind. The build was a three-story quartz structure, alternating between windows of amethyst and emerald blocks, complete with a roof of emerald arches and a chimney made out of amethyst. Nzinga then asks herself about how many hours Jannah spent building the structure, wondering if it would’ve been better if that time was used for building on Honeysuckle Dreams instead. Soon, Nzinga brushes the questions away as she comes across some wolves, taming two of them and calling them Mocha and Latte. Nzinga then notices that her hunger bar is getting low, so she finds a cave and places a bed inside, blocked off by a makeshift wall. Heading out of the cave, Nzinga then finds a pillager outpost and kills a pillager with her crossbow. Mocha and Latte go after the pillager captain and kills it, and Nzinga picks up the ominous bottle that dropped, wondering if she can use it for later. An arrow thwips by her, and she heads back to the cave with her wolves, killing a sheep along the way. Mir shouts that the gameplay was horrendous and tells Nzinga to log off, but the two laugh it out in the end, making Nzinga feel like she completely forgot about Jannah making her feel shredded.

Chapter 18
Later, Nzinga is alone in the basement working on something for Honeysuckle Dreams as Mir goes upstairs to his room to take a break. Nzinga has some passing thoughts in her head, wondering if she would able to turn in the project for Phantasy Philly even if she worked on it alone, and wondering if Mir and Jannah would disapprove of her additions to the project. Despite the questions, Nzinga says to herself that she is showing them why they should care about the project and why her plan is a good one. Just then, Nzinga gets some text messages from Jannah, who says that she saw her talking to the developer today. Nzinga replies back that it was an interesting conversation, and Jannah replies back that it was cool that she stood up to them. Nzinga considers telling her the truth about the construction, but instead replies that the conversation was scary, but not all of them were bad. Jannah then replies with a voice message, saying that none of the developers are good, and that they are trying to get rid of them through gentrification. Nzinga concurs with her statement before switching topics to the Honeysuckle project, wondering if Friday would be a good day to work on it. Jannah then replies that she has a crew she had been wanting her to get to know so they could all hang out and work together on the project, wondering if meeting tomorrow at 11AM would work. Nzinga, feeling confident about finally meeting The Crafties, replies that it would be cool to meet up, and Jannah replies with a smiling emoji.

Chapter 19
The following morning, Nzinga and Mir walk out the door and head over to Jannah’s house, with Ms. Bashirah letting them know to check in on their tracking device if they want to stay out past 1PM. Nzinga and Mir head over to the yard of the house of young Mr. Melvin, where they agreed to meet up, but Nzinga is confused as she sees Jannah with the twin children of Ms. Maria. Nzinga asks Jannah if she got stuck babysitting, but Jannah whispers to her that it is not babysitting, and introduces DeAngelo and Diana to them, saying to Nzinga that they become her friends once she left. Diana says that she refers to her and DeAngelo as the "Double DJ Crew", and the twins high-five each other before high-fiving Jannah.

Chapter 20
Nzinga feels flabbergasted, thinking that Jannah is skipping out on working on Honeysuckle Dreams to be with Ms. Maria’s twins. The group move toward the backyard of the house of young Mr. Melvin, and Nzinga tells Jannah that she thought she would be meeting up with The Crafties. Jannah reiterates that she sees them, but not until 1PM. Nzinga breathes a sigh of relief, but knows she will have to put up with whatever DeAngelo and Diana want to do. The wins suggest playing a game of Rock Wars, and Nzinga and Mir think that it involves actual fighting with rocks, but Jannah says that it doesn’t. Everyone picks up five rocks as DeAngelo starts singing a kid’s song about raindrops being candy, and the group walk around the backyard before Diana yells for everyone to freeze. Jannah whispers to Nzinga and Mir that everyone has to stay in place until whoever is singing stops singing or when someone moves, but Nzinga eventually gets worn out and drops the rocks.
As the next round starts, everyone hands over a rock to Nzinga, and Jannah explains that when a person loses a round, they get a rock from the other players, and all players keep playing until someone no longer has rocks. Nzinga insists that she doesn’t want to play anymore, but Jannah says that Mir is playing along, adding that DeAngelo and Diana can only play this game because of the construction going on, gesturing to the taped-off areas, the big holes, and the buildings that have almost been completely demolished. Nzinga’s relents and decides to play on as Diana starts singing a nursery rhyme. Unfortunately, Nzinga drops her rocks as she sneezes, so she now has thirteen rocks to carry around, but Jannah adds a rule that whoever else loses has to take five rocks from Nzinga, and everyone is in agreement. As the next round starts, DeAngelo starts singing another kid’s song before Diana yells out again for everyone to freeze. DeAngelo continues singing until a loud boom is heard, causing everyone to drop their rocks, and Mir starts running.

Chapter 21
Mir runs from the backyard to the front yard. Jannah and Nzinga quickly catch him, with Nzinga telling him to breathe. Deangelo and Diana start bawling their eyes out as the young Mr. Melvin is woken up from his sleep, slamming the front door and cursing to himself before meeting up with everyone else. He quickly apologizes, knowing that he himself played with the wall that was up the hill from his yard when he was little. The young Mr. Melvin adds that the wall did look a little off as if it was leaning in the middle, but notes that the demolition and construction to build stuff is something that nobody wants, and asks the group if they are alright. Jannah replies that they are okay, and the young Mr. Melvin suggests that they go play somewhere else, adding that he’ll call the city emergency line to see if they can secure it. As DeAngelo and Diana suggest that they fight the machines, Jannah walks them over to a nearby playground, and Nzinga joins them after taking Mir back to Ms. Bashirah’s house. As the twins climb on the spiderweb rope, Nzinga and Jannah go on the swings. A bit later, the twins get tired of playing outside, so they decide to head over to Ms. Bashirah’s house for lunch.

Notes from EnderMirr
Mir is back in the basement, logging into Minecraft and going on The Sanctuary. He re-reads the social story about eloping a few times before resuming playing. Mir then walks over to a grove, surrounded by mountains and snow, and starts to dig down, being enveloped in darkness.

Chapter 22
Once arriving at Ms. Bashirah’s house, DeAngelo and Diana bolt to the basement as Nzinga picks up the loose wheels from her sneakers. One was rolling around on the floor, and the other is being kicked around by Obsidian. Nzinga eventually picks up the second wheel and makes a mental note to hide them when they are not being used. After Nzinga and Jannah greet Mir, the two go to the project table to work on protest signs for the upcoming City Council meeting. Deangelo and Diana work on some signs as well, with statements such as "Lower the Volume!", "YOU’RE HURTING OUR EARS!", "Shhhhhhhhhh", and "WE CAN’T HEAR OURSELVES PLAY!". Nzinga notices Diana made a bunch of scribbles on her poster, making it illegible, and attempts to comment on it, but Diana says that Nzinga called her poster "ugly", despite Nzinga never saying the word. Nzinga, however, apologizes, and brings up about going online for drawing tips, but Jannah already has her arm around Diana, telling Nzinga to stop talking. Nzinga again apologizes and heads over to the computer to calm herself down.
As she says that she is making a poster, she instead logs into Minecraft and joins the Honeysuckle Dreams server, thinking about if an apartment complex would be good on Honeysuckle Street. The thought stumps Nzinga as she starts laying out blocks of quartz in the gap left by the area where the pharmacy used to be, but Mir soon calls her for help with Sid and Tinker Bell, so she minimizes the game and opens the painting application before heading over to comfort the cats. As Nzinga leaves Sid upstairs, she heads back downstairs and notices DeAngelo playing on the computer in Minecraft. She asks him as to what he is doing, and DeAngelo says that he placed three big rocks. Nzinga says that this project is not rock wars, causing DeAngelo to tell on her for being mean. Jannah then finishes up the signs and says that she needs to leave to meet up with the Crafties. Nzinga is in disbelief, thinking that she would be meeting up with the group, but Jannah says that the group is private and that the meetings they hold are only for members. Nzinga then says that she thought there would be an exception due to her being Jannah’s cousin, and Jannah says that maybe adding her to the group was not the best idea. Jannah then leaves, and Nzinga goes back to working on Honeysuckle Dreams, making the apartment building and using redstone for lights. Two hours later, Ms. Bashirah calls her upstairs for lunch.