This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Minecraft is now available on Chromebooks!





Type

Mojang machinima

Date

June 8, 2023

Length

1:06

{
    "title": "Minecraft is now available on Chromebooks!",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang machinima article, displayed as Mojang machinima)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 8, 2023",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:06",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft is now available on Chromebooks! is a trailer promoting the release of Minecraft on Chromebook.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Gallery
3 Navigation

Summary
The video opens in a white void with a laptop opening, showing Minecraft's main screen before changing into a scene to which the camera zooms in. The scene is a structure resembling Chrome's logo with the seven heroes running around below it. The scene cuts to a cherry grove where the screen splits in two. Each of Noor at the left and Sunny at the right approach a sniffer. In a desert village, Makena runs across the village while Efe uses a brush. Zuri and Kai explore lush caves together, before the scene shifts to a ruined portal in the plains and merges back. There, Noor and Ari prepare to enter the Nether. Noor rides a strider across a lava spring while Ari gets fireballed by a ghast. Back in the Overworld, Makena and Efe ride a camel, Zuri and Kai row across a river on a bamboo raft, and Ari rides a minecart, all toward the Chrome building. Inside, Kai opens a secret door through the bookshelves for Ari and Makena. Meanwhile, Sunny runs across a kitchen run by Zuri and Kai as a pig rides a minecart on a railway across the building. The scene cuts to Noor raising frogs in a frog-shaped weathered copper fountain, while Zuri turns on a jukebox for an allay and a fox as the pig from earlier passes beneath them. To promote the placement of mobs on minecarts, Noor places a pig on a railway before getting nudged by another behind them. Then, the seven go up the roof to build a statue of a Chromebook which, once they finished building, turned on, showing the Chrome logo. Afterward, the camera zooms out back to the white void as a white block cracks under the laptop, causing it to drop its item form.

Characters

Allay
Ari
Camel
Desert Butcher
Efe
Frog
Ghast
Gray Parrot
Kai
Makena
Noor
Pig
Piglin (head)
Plains Farmer
Red Fox
Red Parrot
Sniffer
Strider
Skeleton
Sunny
Villager
White Horse
Zuri
Settings

Beach
Cherry Grove
AreaSprite chrome-building.png: Sprite image for chrome-building in MinecraftChrome Building
Chromebook
Desert
Desert Village
Forest
Lush Caves
Mangrove Swamp
Plains
Nether Portal
Plains Village
River
Savanna Plateau
Soul Sand Valley
Gallery










Navigation