Minecraft Earth was shut down due to outdoor restrictions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
It can no longer be downloaded or played, but the contents of this page are kept for historical interest.

Minecraft Earth

Developer(s)

 Mojang Studios Blackbird Interactive

Publisher(s)

 Xbox Game Studios

Platform(s)

Written in

 C++

Latest version

0.33.0

Release date

Closed beta: July 16, 2019
Early access: October 17 – November 21, 2019 (26 countries)
December 11, 2019 (worldwide, with few exceptions)

Rating(s)

ESRB: E10+
PEGI: 7
ACB: PG
Apple: 9+
DEJUS: L

Size

iOS & iPadOS: 379.1 MB
Android: 63 MB

License

Terms of Use

Source available

Partial

{
    "title": "''Minecraft Earth''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Mojang Studios logo.svg article, displayed as x20px|link=Mojang Studios) (link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)<br>(link to File:BlackbirdInteractiveLogo.png article, displayed as 20px|class=darkmode-invert) (link to Blackbird Interactive article, displayed as Blackbird Interactive)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Xbox Game Studios.svg article, displayed as 25px|link=Xbox Game Studios) (link to Xbox Game Studios article, displayed as Xbox Game Studios)",
            "label": "Publisher(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:iOS.svg article, displayed as x10px|iOS|link=wikipedia:iOS|class=darkmode-invert)<span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:iPadOS.svg article, displayed as x10px|iPadOS|link=wikipedia:iPadOS|class=darkmode-invert)</span><span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:Android icon.svg article, displayed as x15px|Android|link=wikipedia:Android (operating system))</span>",
            "label": "Platform(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:C++.svg article, displayed as x20px|C++|link=wikipedia:C++) (link to wikipedia:C++ article, displayed as C++)",
            "label": "Written in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to MCE:0.33.0 article, displayed as 0.33.0)",
            "label": "Latest version"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''Closed beta''': July 16, 2019<br>\n'''Early access''': October 17 – November 21, 2019 <small>((link to Minecraft Earth#Early access article, displayed as 26 countries))</small><br>\nDecember 11, 2019 <small>(worldwide, with few exceptions)</small>",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Entertainment Software Rating Board article, displayed as ESRB): E10+\n* (link to wikipedia:Pan European Game Information article, displayed as PEGI): 7\n* (link to wikipedia:Australian Classification Board article, displayed as ACB): PG\n* (link to wikipedia:App Store (Apple) article, displayed as Apple): 9+\n* (link to wikipedia:Brazilian advisory rating system article, displayed as DEJUS): L",
            "label": "Rating(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''iOS & iPadOS''': 379.1 MB\n'''Android''': 63 MB",
            "label": "Size"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://minecraft.net/terms Terms of Use]",
            "label": "License"
        },
        {
            "field": "Partial",
            "label": "<span style=\"white-space:normal\">Source available</span>"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Key art by Mojang Studios
Minecraft Earth was a free-to-play augmented reality (AR) spin-off mobile game developed by Mojang Studios and published by Xbox Game Studios for iOS, iPadOS, and Android. The game was about building structures and collecting materials by traveling to real-life locations. The first closed beta in the United States released on July 16, 2019, and was released worldwide on December 11, 2019. It received its last update on January 5, 2021, and was officially shut down on June 30, 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. All players who made a purchase in the game received a free copy of Bedrock Edition, even if they had one already, and any remaining paid balance of rubies were exchanged for Minecoins.

Contents

1 Design
2 Gameplay

2.1 Adventures
2.2 Buildplates
2.3 Challenges
2.4 Gameplay differences from regular Minecraft

3 Microtransactions
4 Development
5 Release

5.1 Closed beta

5.1.1 iOS and iPadOS
5.1.2 Android

5.2 Early access
5.3 Shutdown

6 System requirements
7 Videos
8 Quotes
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Screenshots

11 References
12 External links
13 Navigation

Design
Minecraft Earth was an adaptation of the traditional Minecraft experience to an augmented-reality setting, similarly to Ingress and Pokémon GO. The game itself was the first Minecraft spin-off that was built on the Bedrock engine, and featured many unique gameplay aspects and similar interactions to the main game.
Minecraft Earth required an Xbox Live account to play the game and used Microsoft Azure Spatial Anchors along with OpenStreetMap to power location-based gameplay. The technology synced the position of buildplates in multi-player by referencing objects in the real world, creating a seamless experience.
It was announced that the Nether and the End were planned for Minecraft Earth in a future update, but these plans were scrapped due to the game being discontinued.

Gameplay
See also: MCE:Exclusive features

Gameplay of Minecraft Earth.
In Minecraft Earth, players were allowed to build structures with other players and "place them in the real world at life-size".
In the map view, players were allowed to see their character, which was able to be changed with skins owned from the marketplace or generated using the Character Creator. Scattered around the maps were tappables. If a tappable was within a player's collection range, the player could tap it and collect items. There were multiple types of tappables, including stone, grass, ponds, chests, and mobs.

Adventures
Main article: MCE:Adventure
Adventures appeared on the map but were also allowed to be spawned using Adventure Crystals. Adventures were the survival aspect of Minecraft Earth. Players were allowed to fight mobs, collect additional resources that are unavailable with tappables, and collect rewards. Adventures were only allowed to be played in life-size mode.

Buildplates
Main article: MCE:Buildplate
Buildplates were worlds that players used to build on. They were shared remotely for viewing, and worked on by invited players in the same location.
Buildplates were 8×8, 16×16 or 32×32 blocks in size, and their build height limit was 221 blocks. From ground level, a buildplate also extended downward in varying depth, depending on the buildplate. The minimum depth before bedrock appeared after digging down was 3 blocks and the buildplate with the maximum recorded depth was 12 blocks.
Using the shop, players were allowed to buy new plots using rubies. Plots were also earned via a leveling system.
Buildplates functioned like personal realms and were used anywhere. They ran in the Bedrock Engine, meaning redstone, physics, and other mechanics were identical to Bedrock Edition. Players were allowed to invite friends to build with them locally and then share the world to others via a link.
A player was allowed to interact with a buildplate in miniature and life-size modes. In miniature mode, the buildplate functioned the same as Creative mode in Minecraft, allowing the player to build structures and populate the buildplate with mobs. In life-size mode, the buildplate functioned the same as Survival mode, in which the player must use tools to interact with blocks. Hostile mobs on the buildplate attacked the player, and the player could lose health and life.
A planned feature for buildplates that was announced but never implemented was the ability to pin buildplates on the map for other players to view publicly.
Buildplates were also allowed to be shared via a link, so players were not required to be in the same location as the creator to see creations. The links shared were either temporary or never expired. Mojang Studios claimed to have a 24/7 moderation team, reviewing and looking at reports of inappropriate builds.
Minecraft Earth adventures had their own buildplates, with predefined above-ground and underground structures and hostile mobs. Like user buildplates, an adventure plate was only allowed to be placed somewhere on the ground before interacting with it. Adventure buildplates weren't able to be saved or moved by a player although multiple players were allowed to interact with the same adventure at the same time.

Challenges
Similar to advancements in Java Edition and achievements in Bedrock Edition, challenges were tasks given to player to guide the player. Unlike advancements, there were 3 types of challenges: Daily, Seasonal, and Tappable challenges. These challenges involved individual tasks; the player obtained rubies, experience, and credit after completing, i.e. if the player's task is to collect 6 ferns, and another challenge is to collect 4 ferns, and the player gets 2 ferns, it would apply to both tasks.

Gameplay differences from regular Minecraft
Inventory in Minecraft Earth, showing that stacks of items and mobs appeared unlimited in size and quantity.
Minecraft Earth offered somewhat different mechanics to players more familiar with Java or Bedrock editions of Minecraft. These differences included:

While players could build upward and dig downward, one could not climb or descend unless a real-world structure was available for said activity.
There was no daylight cycle; buildplates and adventures always had the same lighting regardless of the real-world time of day. Some buildplates were available with night illumination.
Inventory:
Inventory was effectively unlimited, both in inventory slots and the stack size of items or blocks.
There was no inventory crafting grid, and no way to repair damaged items by combining them.
There were no armor slots in the inventory.
Mobs were allowed to be collected, and achievements were earned for collecting them. Occasionally a tappable dropped a hostile mob that was allowed to be collected and placed on a buildplate.
Inventory was unaffected by death, as it was inaccessible during adventures. Only items in the hotbar and backpack (the items collected during an adventure) were lost.
Crafting:
Both crafting and smelting required a considerable amount of time, taking up to several minutes (or even hours) depending on the item. Like smelting in regular Minecraft, the player was allowed to exit the crafting or smelting interface to do other things while the process completes.
Several items could not be crafted, such as chests, crafting tables, armor, villager workstations, fishing rods, and anything related to enchantments or potions (anvils, enchanting tables, brewing stands, etc.).
Tools and melee weapons had infinite range.
Health and hunger were combined into one health gauge bar. Health was depleted by mob attacks, and restored by eating food.
Food could not be cooked in Survival mode (i.e. during an adventure), and was only allowed to be cooked outside of an adventure. Food was allowed to be eaten during an adventure and outside of an adventure.
Iron ingots were available only by smelting iron ore, which was rare and never dropped by tappables. Iron ore was obtained only via mining during an adventure, provided the adventure included any iron at all, and rarely when killing zombies, similar to Minecraft.
There was no way to craft or wear armor in the game. A player used tactics rather than armor for protection. Players were also allowed to obtain different clothing items, but these offer no armor protection.
It was not possible to find chests as items, craft them, or store them in the player's inventory. They existed only as tappables.
Ladders were available for construction, but they could not be climbed.
Obsidian did not exist and could not be created. Lava flowing into water formed cobblestone, but lava was unaffected by water flowing onto it.
Other differences:

Mini boosts were figurines that were tapped to the device's NFC reader giving temporary boosts to stats in-game, such as better defense or attack strength. Only five can be used at a time and the same boost.
Adventure crystals were added for people isolating during the COVID-19 pandemic. Adventure crystals allowed a player to experience a small, medium, large or huge adventure without having to go outside, provided the adventure had enough open area. They later ended up being a permanent feature to the game up until its discontinuation.
Microtransactions
The game had full microtransactions.
The in game currency was rubies, which was not to be confused with Minecoins.
Rubies were used to:

Purchase buildplates
Purchase boosts
Purchase second and third slots for crafting and smelting
Speed up crafting and smelting tasks
Minecoins were also used as a secondary currency in Minecraft Earth, for purchasing skins and clothing.
In 0.33.0, the final update to Minecraft Earth, all microtransactions had been removed in preparation for the game's shutting down on June 30, 2021.

Development
During Microsoft Build 2015, Microsoft's HoloLens team unveiled an augmented reality version of Minecraft, internally codenamed "Minecraft Genoa". On May 6, 2019, Microsoft released a video on YouTube, where some features from Minecraft Earth were shown. On May 8, 2019, a trailer was released, showing some AR mods in Minecraft Earth. On Minecraft's 10th anniversary (May 17, 2019), Minecraft Earth was officially announced.

Release
See also: Minecraft Earth:Version history

Closed beta
iOS and iPadOS
The closed beta for Minecraft Earth was launched for AR-compatible devices running iOS and iPadOS in the cities listed below.

Closed beta launch date

City

July 16, 2019

London, England
Seattle, Washington, United States

July 17, 2019

Stockholm, Sweden
Tokyo, Japan

July 18, 2019

Mexico City, Mexico

Android
The closed beta for Minecraft Earth was launched for AR-compatible devices running Android in the same five cities the iOS closed beta was launched in.

Date

Cities of the closed beta launch

Notes

August 22, 2019

—

Pre-registration for the full game on the Google Play Store and registration for the closed beta on the Minecraft Earth site becomes available.

August 30, 2019

London, EnglandSeattle, Washington, United StatesStockholm, SwedenTokyo, JapanMexico City, Mexico

This closed beta was launched in the same cities as the closed beta for iOS already was launched in.

Early access
The early access of Minecraft Earth was launched for everyone to download in the App Store and Google Play in the countries listed below.

Early access launch date

Version

Country

October 17, 2019

0.5.0

Iceland, New Zealand

October 29, 2019

0.6.0

Australia, Mexico, Sweden

October 31, 2019

0.6.1

Canada, the Philippines, South Korea

November 5, 2019

—

United Kingdom

November 12, 2019

0.7.0

United States

November 19, 2019

0.7.1

Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland

November 21, 2019

—

India

December 11, 2019

0.8.0

Most countries worldwide, excluding Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Mainland China, Myanmar, North Korea, Sudan and UAE.

Shutdown
On January 5, 2021, Mojang Studios released the final update to Minecraft Earth, 0.33.0, and announced that the game's servers would be taken offline after June 30, 2021, with the reason being the global COVID-19 situation. On that day, the game was removed from the respective app stores. Players who open the app after that date are greeted with this message, which includes a link to information about the shutdown:

“Dear Minecraft Earth players,We have been on an amazing adventure together, bringing the wonder of Minecraft into the real world. We have built masterpieces, collected amazing new mobs, and even dug deep into the ground on incredible Epic [sic] adventures.We have made the difficult discussion [sic] to end support for Minecraft Earth as of June 30th, 2021.Thanks for playing and we hope to see you in Minecraft.– The Minecraft Earth Team„
Returning players who logged in before the discontinuation received an exclusive Character Creator "Hero" outfit set. Moreover, any returning player who had a remaining paid ruby balance before the shutdown would receive a free copy of Bedrock Edition.

System requirements
According to the FAQ page:

 &

Minimum version

iOS 12

Android Oreo (8.0)

Supported devices

iPhone 6S or later
iPhone SE (all models)
iPhone Air
iPad (5th gen) or later
iPad Air (3rd gen) or later
iPad mini (5th gen) or later
iPad Pro (all models)
iPod touch (7th gen)

Pixel 2 or later
ARCore supported devices except for these

Videos













Quotes
“Bring the Minecraft universe into the real world with augmented reality!„ — minecraft.net on Minecraft Earth
Trivia
Minecraft Earth was very similar to the discontinued Minecraft Reality, an app where one could display Minecraft builds over real-life scenes using the phone's camera.
Due to using the Bedrock engine, all of the textures in Bedrock Edition during the Village & Pillage update can be found in the files despite many being unused.
One of the game's songs, "Earth", was featured as a newly arranged track in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as part of Challenger Pack 7.
Gallery



			The Minecraft Earth logo



			The Minecraft Earth app icon



			Cover for Minecraft Earth: Original Game Soundtrack



			Minecraft Earth key art



			Minecraft Earth key art



			Minecraft Earth key art



			Splash screen



			Splash screen



			An image from the official Twitter of Minecraft Earth, announcing the end of the game.



			An image from the official Twitter of Minecraft Earth, saying its farewell to the game.



			Dyed cat in Stockholm.



			Dyed Cat in Tokyo.



			Dyed cat in Mexico City.



			United Kingdom map.



			United States map.



			India map



			Australian map.



			Canada map.



			Iceland map.



			Japan map.



			Mexico map.



			New Zealand map.



			Philippines map.



			Korea map.



			Sweden map.



			Western Europe map.



			Steve explains Earth Map Concepts.



			Pigs near a fenced area.



			Same as previous.



			Many people playing Minecraft Earth on their table.



			Ditto.



			Ditto.



































			Edge magazine covering Minecraft Earth.



			Ditto.


Screenshots



			An in-app notice that reminded player of the games imminent shutdown that appeared from January 5 to June 30, 2021.



			The message that appears when the Minecraft Earth app is opened from July 1, 2021 onwards.



			The official poster of Minecraft Earth.



			The official poster on collaborating in Minecraft Earth.



			The official poster on collecting in Minecraft Earth.



			The official poster on creating in Minecraft Earth.



			The official poster on exploring in Minecraft Earth. Endermen are not in Minecraft Earth however.



			A muddy pig viewed both on a mobile device and in the world



			A multiplayer buildplate



			A ship



			A windmill buildplate



			The reward screen



			The map



			A windmill in full size mode



			A tree buildplate



			A pig



			A house buildplate



			Farming in Minecraft Earth


References

 "LONDON and SEATTLE, you’re up! As the first two cities to go live in the Minecraft Earth closed beta, all eyes are on you and your life-sized minetacular (specblockular?) creations!↣ http://redsto.ne/MCEarthCB ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), July 16, 2019

 "Minecraft Earth is here! Starting today, we will begin to roll out early access from country to country, starting with: 🇳🇿 New Zealand 🇮🇸 Iceland Not a citizen of either land? Stay tuned as we announce the next countries soon!↣ http://redsto.ne/minecraftearth ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), October 17, 2019

 "We've saved up all our wool to roll out the red carpet. Over the next 24 hours, Minecraft Earth early access will become available in countries all across the world! Navigate over to your app store of choice to start crafting in real life."  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), December 11, 2019

 Minecraft Earth – Apps on Google Play

 Google Play

 Minecraft Earth on the App Store

 "Minecraft Earth is coming to an end"     – Minecraft.net, January 5, 2021.

 "Minecraft Earth goes a step beyond Pokémon Go to cover the world in blocks"   (Archive)  by Tom Warren  – The Verge, May 17, 2019.

 "Minecraft Earth | Sign Up for Updates"  (archived)   – earth.minecraft.net.

 "Minecraft Earth gameplay detailed: Adventures, world map, hunger, Tappables, and Build Plates"     by Jez Corden  – Windows Central.

 "Minecraft Earth FAQs"  (archived)   – help.minecraft.net.

 "The Nether, Breeding, Adventures And More. Minecraft Earth Q&A 2 Summary"  (archived)   by Jack Hullis  – playminecraftearth.com.

 "Buildplate height limit is 221" in #minecraft-earth of Minecraft Earth – @Pyroclasm on Discord, 18 November, 2019. View screenshot of message (file page).

 This was the default 8×8 jungle buildplate rewarded for reaching level 15.

 "Hey, we absolutely will keep them! We added them because they're a great experience and we know players are really enjoying them!" - SevralTimez

 "How To Get Rubies In Minecraft Earth"  (archived)   by Jack Hullis  – playminecraftearth.com.

 "HoloLens games are too good for HoloLens"     – The Verge, June 17, 2015.

 "What's Minecraft up to?"

 "Here’s the full-length, first-ever, look at Minecraft Earth! Discover how the reality-bending, world-blending power of AR bring blocks to life! Armed with just your phone and your creativity, you now have the power to Minecraft your world."  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), May 17, 2019

 "Seattle and London are already live, and now it’s time to welcome STOCKHOLM to the block party! Södermalm or Kungsholmen, which part of the city will prove to be the most creative?↣ redsto.ne/MCEarthCB ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), July 17, 2019

 "TOKYO! Home of the historical and the hyper-modern, cat cafés and muddy pigs. Wait, what? Yes! Tokyo is the fourth city to join the Minecraft Earth closed beta.↣ http://redsto.ne/MCEarthCB ↢"  – @Minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), July 17, 2019

 "The Minecraft Earth closed beta is now live in MEXICO CITY! Five cities are up and running – we can’t wait to see what you create! #mexicocity↣ http://redsto.ne/MCEarthCB ↢"  – @Minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), July 18, 2019

 "Android players, we’ve heard your call. Next week, we'll be bringing the #MinecraftEarth beta to your devices! Make sure to sign up now for your chance to join the fun!↣ http://redsto.ne/earthsignup ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), August 22, 2019

 "The Android beta is finally here! We’re hard at work rolling out the update in five cities: Seattle, London, Tokyo, Stockholm, and Mexico City. Happy crafting everyone!↣ http://redsto.ne/earthandbet ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), August 30, 2019

 "Minecraft Earth closed beta now on Android"     – Minecraft.net, August 30, 2019.

 "Minecraft Earth Early Access"     – Minecraft.net, October 17, 2019.

 "Early access is in full swing and rolling out around the world! We’re working around the block to bring everyone into Minecraft Earth. Here are today’s countries:🇦🇺 Australia🇲🇽 Mexico🇸🇪 SwedenMore info on our early access plans 👇↣ http://redsto.ne/earlyaccess ↢"  – @MinecraftEarth  on X (formerly Twitter), October 29, 2019

 "Queued up and ready to go! Today, three additional countries join the Minecraft Earth early access. Say hi to:🇰🇷 South Korea🇨🇦 Canada🇵🇭 PhilippinesMore information at:↣ http://redsto.ne/earlyaccess ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), October 31, 2019

 "Tea, crumpets – and now also Minecraft Earth! Early access has arrived in the 🇬🇧United Kingdom. Jolly good!Read more at:↣ https://redsto.ne/minecraftearth ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), November 5, 2019

 "Hey 🇺🇸United States, we found your Minecraft Earth invite, it was behind the couch this whole time! Welcome to early access!More information at:↣ http://redsto.ne/minecraftearth ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), November 12, 2019

 "More countries need to join the early access? Well, alright then! Now LIVE in:🇯🇵Japan🇦🇹Austria🇧🇪Belgium🇩🇰Denmark🇫🇮Finland🇫🇷France🇩🇪Germany🇮🇪Ireland🇮🇹Italy🇱🇺Luxembourg🇳🇱Netherlands🇳🇴Norway🇵🇹Portugal🇪🇸Spain🇨🇭SwitzerlandLearn more:↣ http://redsto.ne/minecraftearth ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), November 19, 2019

 "Time to get to tappin’, players of 🇮🇳India! Minecraft Earth early access has arrived and is going live across the country. Enjoy!↣ http://redsto.ne/minecraftearth ↢"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), November 21, 2019

 https://web.archive.org/web/20121128043237/http://minecraftreality.com/

 "Minecraft Earth will be closing down in June 2021. Please read our full message below for details. We appreciate all the support from the community!🌍 http://redsto.ne/minecraftearthending"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), January 5, 2021

 "Today we say farewell to Minecraft Earth. We are so incredibly thankful for this wonderful community and all the memories we have built together."  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), June 30, 2021

 "It's time to make wheat - or melons, or beetroots - while the sun shines! Farming has arrived in Minecraft: Earth. What will you plant?"  – @minecraftearth  on X (formerly Twitter), November 26, 2019

External links
Minecraft Earth on Wikipedia
Navigation