"Launcher" redirects here.  For other uses, see Launcher (disambiguation).

Minecraft Launcher

Developer(s)

Mojang Studios

Platform(s)

Written in

Latest version

3.39.31

Release date

June 30, 2010

Size

 ~10.13 MB

Source available

No

Links

minecraft.net
Microsoft Store

{
    "title": "''Minecraft Launcher''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Windows.svg article, displayed as x20px|Windows|link=wikipedia:Microsoft Windows)<span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:macOS.svg article, displayed as x10px|macOS|link=wikipedia:macOS|class=darkmode-invert)</span><span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:Tux.svg article, displayed as x20px|Linux|link=wikipedia:Linux)</span>",
            "label": "Platform(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:TypeScript.svg article, displayed as x20px|TypeScript|link=wikipedia:TypeScript)<span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:React.svg article, displayed as x20px|React.js|link=wikipedia:React (software))</span><span class=\"os-icon\">(link to File:C++.svg article, displayed as x20px|C++|link=wikipedia:C++)</span>",
            "label": "Written in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Launcher_3.39.31 article, displayed as 3.39.31)",
            "label": "Latest version"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 30, 2010",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:MicrosoftStore.svg article, displayed as x20px|Windows 10+ (Microsoft Store)|link=wikipedia:Microsoft Windows) ~10.13 MB",
            "label": "Size"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "<span style=\"white-space:normal\">Source available</span>"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://minecraft.net/download minecraft.net]\n* [https://xbox.com/games/store/-/9PGW18NPBZV5 Microsoft Store]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Minecraft Launcher.png"
    ]
}

Key art by Mojang Studios
The Minecraft Launcher is the main game downloader and launcher for Minecraft: Java Edition and one of the game downloaders and launchers for Bedrock Edition, Minecraft Dungeons, and Minecraft Legends. It is available for Windows, macOS and Linux, but Minecraft: Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Legends can be played only on Windows 10 or later, and Minecraft Dungeons only on Windows 7 or later.

Contents

1 Features
2 Minecraft: Java Edition

2.1 Installations
2.2 Backward compatibility
2.3 Realms
2.4 Skins
2.5 Patch notes

3 Minecraft: Bedrock Edition

3.1 Realms
3.2 Creator Tools
3.3 Marketplace Pass
3.4 FAQ
3.5 Installation
3.6 Patch notes

4 Minecraft Dungeons II
5 Minecraft Dungeons

5.1 Play
5.2 DLC
5.3 FAQ
5.4 Installation
5.5 Patch notes

6 Minecraft Legends

6.1 Play
6.2 FAQ
6.3 Installation
6.4 Patch notes

7 Settings
8 Command-line usage
9 Uninstalling the old Minecraft Unified Launcher
10 History

10.1 Java Edition
10.2 Minecraft Launcher

11 Issues
12 Trivia
13 Gallery

13.1 Minecraft: Java Edition
13.2 Backgrounds
13.3 Version history
13.4 2013–16
13.5 2016–19

14 See also
15 References
16 Navigation

Features
The initial login screen
The initial loading screen
On the initial login screen, users must log in with a pre-existing Microsoft account, otherwise they can create a new one by clicking the link. Subsequent logins can be done in the "Settings" tab.
On the left side, a "Home" tab, a tab for each game, and the Minecraft Launcher "Settings" tab can be seen.
The top left corner of the Minecraft Launcher contains the user's Xbox gamertag for the currently active account (which might differ from their Minecraft: Java Edition username). By clicking on it, users can manage or log out of their active account, and see a "Help" page with various links to helpful resources.

Minecraft: Java Edition
The default view of the Minecraft: Java Edition page in the Minecraft Launcher
The default view of the Minecraft: Java Edition page in the Minecraft Launcher if the user has not purchased the game
There are 5 tabs on the Java Edition page: Play, Installations, Realms, Skins, and Patch notes.
The main "Play" tab allows the user to download (if needed) and launch Minecraft: Java Edition with the "Play" button, and also includes an installation selection on the left (which sorts installations by last played), the user's Java Edition username on the right, and a list of the latest news for the game from minecraft.net below.

One can launch multiple instances of the game by pressing the "Play" button while the game is running.
If the device is not connected to the internet, the game can be run in offline mode, but only if the game has been initially downloaded.
If the user isn't logged into an account that has purchased the game, the "Play" button appears as a "Buy Now" button that links to Buy Minecraft on Minecraft.net.
Installations
Creating a new installation

In the "Installations" tab, custom installations can be created and edited. There are buttons to sort and search installations, as well as checkboxes to enable installations with "Releases", "Snapshots", and "Modded" versions of the game. Installations are stored in launcher_profiles.json (in the game's directory (.minecraft).
By default, there are installations for the "Latest release" and for "Latest snapshot" (if enabled), both of which the game versions cannot be changed. A new installation can be created by clicking the "New installation" button and an existing installation can be edited by clicking on it. There is a "Play" button that launches the selected installation and a folder icon that takes to the installation's game directory. The ellipsis button contains options to edit, duplicate, or delete an installation.
On the create/edit installation page, the following can be changed:

Icon, by selecting one of the default ones or adding a custom one. Custom icons must be a .png and 128×128 pixels in size.
Name, by default called "<unnamed installation>".
Version, which includes access to older releases and snapshots (if enabled).
Game directory, the location of where the game files are saved, the default being .minecraft. The location can be typed in or selected using the "Browse" button.
Resolution, which changes the game's window size. It has a list of resolutions, or a custom one can be typed in.
Java executable, by default uses the bundled Java runtime.
JVM arguments, such as heap size or enabling debug renderers not normally accessible in the debug screen such as mob pathfinding.
Previously, it was possible for users to manually set a logging configuration (see Debugging for more info), however, this doesn't seem to work anymore.
A specific game version's server jar can also be downloaded by selecting the version in the list and pressing the "Server" button next to it.

Backward compatibility
Selecting older versions in the create new installation screen
The Minecraft Launcher has the ability to play most older releases of the game (and older snapshots, if enabled) by default, but also some older versions prior to Java Edition 1.0.0. In order to see these versions in the "Installations" tab, the player must enable "Show historical versions of Java Edition" in the Minecraft Launcher "Settings" tab. Because these versions are outdated and unsupported, they may contain bugs and errors that are not present in newer versions. It is recommended to run old versions of the game in a separate directory and backup worlds to avoid save corruption or other problems.
Once historical versions are enabled, the following can be accessed:

Most Beta versions.
Most Alpha versions (however, Alpha v1.2.0 and Alpha v1.2.1 are duplicates of Alpha v1.2.0_02 and Alpha v1.2.1_01 respectively).
One Infdev version.
Four Classic versions.
Five pre-Classic versions (however, rd-20090515 is a duplicate of rd-161348).
This list of versions is populated by version_manifest.json.
Some issues with these older versions include:

Some sounds are wrong; bows, doors, and explosions use their sounds from RC1, even in versions released prior to it. In versions before Alpha v1.1.2_01, sounds do not work at all.
Skins and capes are missing in versions prior to 1.7.6, as earlier versions used a different skin server, which has since been shut down.
In Alpha v1.0.15 and from Alpha v1.2.0 to Alpha v1.2.6, the Minecraft Launcher does not set the player's name properly, resulting in everyone using default names: "Player" followed by a random 3-digit number. This makes multiplayer difficult to play, as a player's location and inventory is reset every time they relaunch their client.
In Alpha v1.2.5 and Alpha v1.2.6 specifically, players are always named "Player524". Playing multiplayer in these versions is impossible, as joining a server kicks off other players with the same name.
As a side effect of the above, and as a result of old authentication servers being shut down, online mode no longer works in versions before Beta 1.8.
Realms
In the "Realms" tab, the user can buy, play, and manage a Minecraft Realm. Players can choose their installation of choice before launching a realm.

Skins
The "Skins" tab
In the "Skins" tab, the user can view and change their in-game skin. By default, the skin is either Steve, Alex, Noor, Sunny, Ari, Zuri, Makena, Kai, or Efe.
In the skin library, a skin can be applied by clicking "Use". The skin can also be edited, duplicated, chosen to be either wide or slim, or delete by clicking the ellipsis button. By default, the library contains the default Steve, Alex, Noor, Sunny, Ari, Zuri, Makena, Kai, and Efe skins, which can be duplicated or applied, but not removed. Custom skins can also be uploaded by clicking the "New skin" button.
Visiting this tab without purchasing the game displays a button that redirects to the Minecraft: Java Edition store page.

Patch notes
This tab shows cards of the patch notes. Each card contains an image on top and the text below stating the name of the patch notes. When clicked, this displays the patch notes.

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition
The default view of the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition page in the Minecraft Launcher
There are 7 tabs on the Bedrock Edition page: Play, Realms, Creator Tools, Marketplace Pass, FAQ, Installation, and Patch notes (the "Installation" tab is not shown on unsupported platforms).
The main "Play" tab allows the user to download or purchase (if needed) and launch Minecraft: Bedrock Edition with the "Play" button and also includes an installation selection on the left to choose between the latest release or the latest Preview. The Minecoins balance is shown on the right which opens a Minecoins purchase screen when clicked. The latest game news from minecraft.net and system requirements are shown in a scrollable section below. Quick Play is accessible and can be managed from the top-right.

If the device is not connected to the internet, the game can be run in offline mode, but only if the game has been initially downloaded.
If the user is on an unsupported device, a warning appears with a link to a website with supported devices, and the "Play" button is replaced with "Not Playable on this Device".
If the user isn't logged into an account that has purchased the game, the "Play" button appears as a "Play demo" button that links the player to Microsoft Store to download and launch the demo version of the game.
The "Play" tab is decorated with key art from the latest named update and allows Minecraft: Pixel Drift to be played in place.

Realms
In the "Realms" tab, the user can buy, join, and manage Realms. Owned and joined Realms are shown with some server information, and a list of pending invites. Joined Realms can be left from here, but all other settings can only be managed in-game or from the minecraft.net page linked here.

Creator Tools
The "Creator Tools" tab
In the "Creator Tools" tab, the user can launch Bedrock Edition with the Editor tools enabled, where players can use the advanced in-game tools to edit worlds through projects and export them as world templates, and create custom Vibrant Visuals resource packs. The Editor can be launched for both the latest release and Minecraft Preview.
This tab includes links to articles about Blockbench plug-ins, Chunker, and the feedback site.

Marketplace Pass
The "Marketplace Pass" tab
In the "Marketplace Pass" tab, the user can subscribe to the Marketplace Pass and access over 150 Marketplace content that changes every month. The links to packs and the subscribe page launch Minecraft with the respective pack or subscribe page opened in the Marketplace. Furthermore, this section contains information about the Marketplace Pass, the Marketplace in general, and Realms Plus, as well as links.

FAQ
The "FAQ" tab provides frequently asked questions and answers about the Minecraft Launcher, Minecraft: Java Edition and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.

Installation
The "Installation" tab is used to install, repair, uninstall the game, or check for updates for Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Preview.

Patch notes
This tab displays patch notes of major and minor updates (not including development versions and hotfixes). Each card contains an image on top and the text below stating the name of the patch notes. When clicked, this displays the patch notes, which are the same as the patch notes on minecraft.net or the feedback site.

Minecraft Dungeons II
The pre-order view of the Minecraft Dungeons II page in the Minecraft Launcher
During its pre-order phase, the Minecraft Dungeons II page contains only a single "Play" tab, which displays promotional media for the upcoming title, including background key art, an embedded trailer, and links to pre-order the game on the Xbox store.
This tab features a screenshot gallery, information about a limited-time pre-order bonus, and a promotional section linking to the original Minecraft Dungeons. Additionally, the page contains an interactive puzzle consisting of eight note blocks that can be activated. If the activation sequence is correct, multiple secret events can be triggered as part of an ARG.

Minecraft Dungeons
The default view of the Minecraft Dungeons page in the Minecraft Launcher
There are 5 tabs on the Minecraft Dungeons page: Play, DLC, FAQ, Installation, and Patch notes (only "Play", "DLC", and "Patch notes" are shown on unsupported platforms).

Play
The main "Play" tab allows the user to download (if needed) and launch the latest version of Minecraft Dungeons with the "Play" button and also includes images from the game and a list of the latest news articles from minecraft.net below. This page also contains a notice that the game can be purchased separately from Microsoft Store for Windows. If the player is not playing on the supported platform, a small message on the bottom is shown that displays: Where is the play button!? Minecraft Dungeons isn't available on (platform).

DLC
The "DLC" tab on the Minecraft Dungeons page in the Minecraft Launcher
The "DLC" tab includes a search bar and filter options to narrow down the results when searching the DLCs. The bundle and the DLCs can be shown by checking the box.
Each DLC is shown in a card-like structure with the DLC info on the left and a cover image on the right. There is also a slideshow on the bottom of the card.

FAQ
The "FAQ" tab on the Minecraft Dungeons page in the Minecraft Launcher
The "FAQ" tab provides frequently asked questions and troubleshooting information concerning passes, launcher compatibility, DLC access, system requirements, and installation repairs for Minecraft Dungeons.

Installation
Visiting this tab is one of the ways to install the game. If the game wasn't bought, the game purchased displays a button that redirects to the Minecraft Dungeons buy page. If the game was bought but wasn't installed, it displays the Install button and if the game was installed, it shows an uninstall, repair and check for updates button.

Patch notes
This tab shows cards of the patch notes. Each card contains an image on top and the text below stating the name of the patch notes. When clicked, this displays the patch notes.

Minecraft Legends
The default view of the Minecraft Legends page in the Minecraft Launcher
There are 4 tabs on the Minecraft Legends page: Play, FAQ, Installation, and Patch notes (only "Play", "FAQ", and "Patch notes" are shown on unsupported platforms).

Play
The main "Play" tab allows the user to download (if needed) and launch the latest version of Minecraft Legends with the "Play" button and also includes images from the game and a list of the latest news articles from minecraft.net below. If the player is not playing on the supported platform, a small message on the bottom is shown that displays: Where is the play button!? Minecraft Legends isn't available on (platform).

FAQ
The "FAQ" tab on the Minecraft Legends page in the Minecraft Launcher
The "FAQ" tab provides frequently asked questions and gameplay guides covering controls, unit spawning, village defense, and accessibility settings for Minecraft Legends.

Installation
Like the Minecraft Dungeons page, visiting this tab is one of the ways to install Minecraft Legends. If the game wasn't bought, the game purchased displays a button that redirects to the Minecraft Legends buy page. If the game was bought but wasn't installed, it displays the Install button and if the game was installed, it shows an uninstall, repair and check for updates button.

Patch notes
This tab shows cards of the patch notes. Each card contains an image on top and the text below stating the name of the patch notes. When clicked, this displays the patch notes.

Settings
The "About" tab in the Minecraft Launcher settings.
There are 3 tabs on the settings page: General, Accounts, and About.
In the main "General" tab, users can:

Change the Minecraft Launcher language. There are 63 languages available, including 3 joke languages (as of July 2026).
Use the beta version of the Minecraft Launcher, which requires restarting the launcher to start downloading if there is one available.
Keep the Minecraft Launcher open while games are running.
Enable animations in the Minecraft Launcher, which are disabled by default to avoid potential motion sickness for some users.
Disable hardware acceleration.
Review the launcher.
Make text size bigger.
Disable video autoplay.
Enable or disable Quick Play feature and delete all entries.
Options exclusively for Minecraft: Java Edition:

Open the output log when the game starts.
Option to automatically send the game's crash reports to Mojang Studios.
Show historical versions of the game (versions prior to Release 1.0) in the version selector in the installations tab.
In the "Accounts" tab, users can add, switch, manage, or remove their Microsoft accounts.
The "About" tab contains details about the Minecraft Launcher including its version, credits, and third-party licenses, as well as a list of patch notes by clicking the "What's New?" button.

Command-line usage



Important Note 
On Windows, these options only apply to the old Unified Minecraft Launcher and NOT the Microsoft Store version.

The Minecraft Launcher can be invoked using the command line by typing %ProgramFiles(x86)%\Minecraft Launcher\MinecraftLauncher.exe on Windows, minecraft-launcher on Linux or /Applications/Minecraft.app/Contents/MacOS/launcher on macOS.

The help message when using MinecraftLauncher.exe --help
As of version 3.37.2, the Minecraft Launcher provides several command-line options:

-h, --help – Displays a help message listing standard command-line options.
-w, --workDir <path> – Sets the launcher working directory (the location of the .minecraft directory).
Can be used to create a portable installation of the launcher by passing a custom path or --workDir . to use the current directory.
-l, --lockDir <path> – Restricts the launcher installation directory to the specified folder.
-c, --config <path> – Specifies a custom path to a configuration file for the launcher.
--clean – Deletes the game and runtime directories, including their contents, from the working directory.
--launcherui – Starts the launcher directly in UI mode, skipping update and startup checks. Allows multiple launcher processes to run simultaneously.
--mclAllowProcessLockRetries – If another instance of the launcher is already running, retries starting up to 5 times (waiting 1 second between attempts) before bringing the existing window to the front.
--launcherComponentDir <path> – Specifies an alternative directory to locate and store core launcher components (such as launcher.dll). Bypasses ordinary update checks if valid components are already present in the folder.
--stagingDir <path> – Specifies a custom staging directory where the updater downloads, extracts, and verifies component update files before replacing active files.
--skipUpdate – Skips the automatic check and download of launcher updates.
--repair – Tells the installer to start a repair routine for the launcher and closes immediately.
--disableGPU – Disables GPU hardware acceleration inside the launcher interface, which can help resolve rendering glitches.
--debugGPU – Opens a dedicated debugging window showing GPU driver capabilities and hardware acceleration statistics for troubleshooting.

Uninstalling the old Minecraft Unified Launcher
Source: "Uninstalling the Old Minecraft Unified Launcher" – Minecraft Help Center.
This applies only to players using Windows 10 or newer. Older versions of Windows are not able to use the new Minecraft Launcher for Windows. With the addition of a new launcher, you can uninstall the old launcher to remove any confusion between the two. For clarity, the new launcher is referred to as the "Minecraft Launcher for Windows" and the old launcher as the "Minecraft Unified Launcher".
How to uninstall the Minecraft Unified Launcher (old launcher):

Click the start menu in Windows (windows icon in the bottom left).
Type in "Add or remove programs" and click the top entry.
Search for "Minecraft Launcher". The launcher to uninstall displays Mojang underneath the title "Minecraft Launcher".
Click the three dots shown to the left of the "Minecraft Launcher" title and select "Uninstall".
Now only one launcher should be installed. Run the Minecraft Launcher for Windows to ensure it still works; if it doesn't, reinstall using Microsoft Store.
Launcher or game mods may need to be migrated or re-installed to the new Minecraft Launcher for Windows installation location before uninstalling the old launcher. Check with the mod developer for more detail.

History
The Launcher is a separate piece of software from Minecraft. For its version history, see Launcher version history.
Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.0.11a
Minecraft was announced on TIGSource, and linked to a page on mojang.com, where the game was hosted as an applet.0.0.13a
Minecraft was moved to Minecraft.net.Java Edition InfdevJune 29, 2010
Initial release of the Minecraft launcher in the form of a downloadable applet.

The client requires an internet connection on the first run and for updates, but after that, the game supports playing offline.

Command line arguments are accepted to launch the game. Using the format java -cp Minecraft.jar net.minecraft.LauncherFrame username password allows login without joining a server, while the format java -cp minecraft.jar net.minecraft.LauncherFrame username password serveraddress:portnumber allows joining a server.Java Edition Alphav1.2.2
Command line arguments format changed.Java Edition Beta1.3
Released on February 21, 2011. A technical sneak preview was published by Notch on February 18, 2011.

Added capability of automatic login to the game and/or server by command line arguments.

Added smarter update system that updates only changed files, prompts the user to update, allows HTTPS logins for a more secure connection, and offers general UI improvements.

Link to the Minecraft install directory for easy access.

Added Force Update button under the Options dialog.

The Minecraft Launcher also featured an inline "changelog" via a Tumblr called MCUpdate, and supports command-line arguments.

Added the new Minecraft logo.
Added official links, community links and Mojang on Twitter links.Java Edition1.2.1
Properly selects 64-bit Java installations for macOS users.1.3.2
Added ability to launch demo mode for non-premium users.1.6.113w16a
New launcher added.

The applet version was discontinued, in favor of the improved Minecraft Launcher.
1.14
New 'beta' launcher added. See Launcher version history for version history from this point onward.
Minecraft Launcher
Minecraft LauncherFebruary 24, 2020
With launcher version 2.1.1382x, patch notes for the Launcher are added to the "About" tab.October 21, 2020
It is announced that Java Edition would be using Microsoft accounts for added security enhancements. With this, all Mojang Studios accounts would be migrated to Microsoft accounts. Since December 1, 2020, new players are no longer able to sign up for a Mojang Studios account; they are instead required to use or create a Microsoft account to buy and play the game.November 27, 2020
With launcher version 2.2.74x it is now "Unified" and one can now log in with a Microsoft Account and launch Minecraft Dungeons, which previously required a separate launcher.October 16, 2021
The Minecraft PC Bundle is announced at Minecraft Live 2021 to be added to Xbox Game Pass for PC. The bundle includes Minecraft Launcher for Windows (the new Minecraft Launcher) available from Microsoft Store on Windows 10/11, and for the first time includes Minecraft: Bedrock Edition in addition to Minecraft: Java Edition and Minecraft Dungeons.March 10, 2022
Mojang Studios and Legacy Minecraft accounts are no longer supported to play games in the launcher, and user who still haven't migrated to Microsoft accounts are directed to do so.

The legacy Minecraft Launcher (version 1.6.x) is discontinued (along with support for Windows XP and Vista) since this launcher does not support Microsoft accounts.July 2, 2022
A crown had been added to the pig on the menu image in memoriam of the popular YouTuber Technoblade, whose death from Stage 4 cancer had been announced 2 days prior.August 23, 2022
Minecraft Preview is added to the Launcher.September 10, 2024
Renamed the "Minecraft for Windows" tab to "Minecraft: Bedrock Edition."February 27, 2025
Added a new tab to showcase "A Minecraft Movie" content.March 24, 2025
Added falling leaves to celebrate the Spring to Life update, along with the "Triple Bundle".April 1, 2025
Added the Launchcraft update.
Issues
Issues relating to "Minecraft Launcher" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
In version 2.2.2529 release notes there's text that reads: T⍑ᒷ ᔑ ̇/𝙹ꖎ𝙹ℸ ̣ ꖎᓭ ᔑ∷ᒷ リ𝙹ℸ ̣ ∴⍑ᔑℸ ̣ ℸ ̣ ⍑ᒷ|| ᓭᒷᒷᒲ - which translates to "THE AXOLOTLS ARE NOT WHAT THEY SEEM".
Both Alpha and Classic versions of Minecraft: Java Edition are listed as "old_alpha", despite them not being the same.
The Minecraft Launcher doesn't store passwords locally. Instead, it uses a 'refresh token'.
The current Minecraft Launcher is the eighth launcher for Minecraft: Java Edition, and the third that was built to automatically update itself.
Game crashes are reported to Mojang Studios through Hopper.
The legacy Minecraft Launcher can be downloaded here (version 1.6.93, ~4.6MB as opposed to the modern launcher's ~85MB). However, the legacy Minecraft Launcher is incompatible with Microsoft accounts and was discontinued in Q2 2021 due to account migration.
In version 2.3.240, the pig on the Minecraft Launcher screen was given a crown in light of popular Minecraft YouTuber Technoblade passing away due to cancer.
The Armadillo loading screen animation is scaled to 1280×720 (16:9) but was originally 646×364 (≈16:9.02), causing distortion to the animation.
Gallery



			Minecraft Launcher for Windows app icon



			Minecraft Unified Launcher app icon



			Minecraft Launcher app icon on macOS



			Minecraft Launcher Microsoft Store square key art



			Minecraft Launcher Microsoft Store vertical key art



			Minecraft Launcher Microsoft Store horizontal key art



			Old Minecraft Launcher Microsoft Store horizontal key art



			Minecraft Launcher for Windows splash screen



			The initial loading screen (2024-2025)



			The initial loading screen (2025-present)



			The initial login screen



			The home tab



			The Minecraft: Java Edition tab



			The Minecraft: Bedrock Edition tab



			The Minecraft Dungeons II tab during pre-order



			The Minecraft Dungeons tab



			The Minecraft Legends tab



			A Minecraft Movie tab



			Close up of the pig with Technoblade’s crown. Added as a memorial after famous YouTuber Technoblade had passed away.



			Old Minecraft Launcher app icon



			Poisonous Potato "play" font



			Minecraft Live tab



			The Bedrock Edition screen on macOS


Minecraft: Java Edition



			The default installations tab (with snapshots enabled)



			Editing an installation



			Adding a new skin



			A game crash



			A warning about running another copy of the game if it is already running



			A warning about playing a version that doesn't support the latest player safety features



			A removed Alex skin that used to represent the default Alex on the Skins tab. Selecting this would simply give the player the default one instead.



			A texture recreation of the removed Alex skin


Backgrounds



			The background for Java Edition and Bedrock Edition, featuring the Mounts of Mayhem official artwork



			The background for Minecraft Dungeons



			The background for Minecraft Legends



			The old background for the initial login screen


Version history



			The first Minecraft Launcher



			In-development image of the second launcher, from Notch's blog



			The second Minecraft Launcher. The old Minecraft logo can be seen.



			The third Minecraft Launcher



			The fourth Minecraft Launcher, version 1.0



			The fifth Minecraft Launcher, version 1.6



			The last update to the Legacy Minecraft Launcher, version 1.6.93



			The sixth Minecraft Launcher, version 2.0



			The sixth Minecraft Launcher, version 2.0 - login menu



			The seventh Minecraft Launcher, version 2.1



			The seventh Minecraft Launcher, version 2.1 - login menu


2013–16



			The 2013 launcher in development



			Dinnerbone logging into the launcher



			Selecting beta versions in the launcher



			Selecting alpha versions in the launcher



			The Launcher Log tab after the Launcher starts



			The Local Version Editor (NYI) tab (replaced by Time Machine)



			Error message that is displayed if a development launcher is outdated



			Error message that is displayed if an old launcher is opened after using the 9.0 launcher



			Notification for the end of support for the launcher


2016–19



			Profile icons selection from the launcher



			Launcher in offline mode



			The Help page



			Game crash



			Launcher warning about running another copy of Minecraft if it is already running



			Older skin options



			Selecting an older version



			The creeper face that appears at the top left corner



			The shrug emoticon that sometimes replaced the creeper face at the top left corner


See also
Tutorial:Programs and editors
References

 " We're expanding our Minecraft Launcher team! We have a lot of exciting plans and are looking for another senior C++ developer to help make them happen. Know someone interested? Send them our way!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 6, 2018

 https://help.minecraft.net/hc/articles/360052640612

 MCL-17489 – Launcher does not allow to use a custom Log4J configuration – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 "How to Change Game Version for Minecraft: Java Edition"     – Minecraft Help Center.

 "2 classic versions, an infdev version and a version before minecraft was called minecraft have been added to the launcher!"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), August 6, 2013

 “Minecraft for Windows” has been renamed to “Minecraft: Bedrock Edition” in the Launcher - @MinecraftWikiEN (Minecraft Wiki) on X (formerly Twitter), September 10, 2024

 https://forums.tigsource.com/index.php?topic=6273.msg200782#msg200782

 https://forums.tigsource.com/index.php?topic=6273.msg203297#msg203297

 Server downtime, and a new Launcher

 "This requires some technical know-how"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), February 18, 2011

 "Welcome to the new Minecraft Launcher"  – MCUpdate, February 21, 2011, Tumblr

 Minecraft 1.2 is Out! – Mojang.com, March 1, 2012

 "Minecraft Snapshot 13w16a and New Launcher"  (archived)   – Mojang.com, April 18, 2013.

 https://www.reddit.com/r/GoldenAgeMinecraft/comments/1bjfhm6/comment/kvv941b/

 "Java Edition is moving house"     – Minecraft.net, October 21, 2020.

 "Mojang Java Account Move"     – Minecraft.net.

 Minecraft Launcher | Xbox

 MCL-9589 – Versions of Classic, Infdev, etc. are still labeled as being part of the Alpha development phase – resolved as "Won't Fix".

Navigation