The content of this article describes material told by an unreliable narrator. 
The following  topic  may not be entirely true within lore.



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article needs to be rewritten. [discuss]
It may contain inappropriate or inaccurate information. Please help us by rewriting it.Reason: Inconsistent with other novel pages, potential piracy concerns

Minecraft: Mobestiary

Author(s)

Alex Wiltshire

Cover artist

Anton Stenvall

Country

United States

Language

English

Genre(s)

Informational fiction

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Penguin Random House LLC

Release date

October 5, 2017

Media type

Print, Digital

Pages

103

OCLC

4565676603

{
    "title": "''Minecraft: Mobestiary''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Wikipedia:Alex Wiltshire article, displayed as Alex Wiltshire)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Wikipedia:Anton Stenvall article, displayed as Anton Stenvall)",
            "label": "Cover artist"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:United States article, displayed as United States)",
            "label": "Country"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Informational fiction",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "Penguin Random House LLC",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "October 5, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Print, Digital",
            "label": "Media type"
        },
        {
            "field": "103",
            "label": "Pages"
        },
        {
            "field": "4565676603",
            "label": "OCLC"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

The Minecraft: Mobestiary is a Minecraft book authored by Alex Wiltshire and illustrated by Anton Stenvall. In the book, a character known as the Naturalist explains how each mob works in detail according to his perspective in the Minecraft world. Most of the writing focuses on the in-game mechanics of each mob, but it occasionally references things from outside the game, such as the killer bunny being "immortalized in a popular comedic play", TNT in the anatomy of a creeper, the superstition of the chicken being a spy, and the origins of endermites being from between dimensions. There are also dissections of some of the mobs showing organs, bones, gas, magma, gears, and/or redstone depending on the mob.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Quotes
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References
6 Navigation

Synopsis
“This book contains the life's work of a devoted naturalist and Minecraft mob expert. The Naturalist has collected information on the habits, habitats, and hallmarks of every creature descovered thus far, from the humble chicken to the terrifying ender dragon. These findings are illustrated with full-color sketches to ensure that you are fully prepared for what awaits.„ — Backcover description
Quotes
“With insider gaming info and tips, this is the official, definitive, fully illustrated guide to mobs—and how to outsmart them—in Minecraft. Minecraft: Mobestiary reveals the secrets of every mob in the game. You’ll find little-known facts about passive, neutral, hostile, utility, and boss mobs, as well as more general information about their locations, behaviors, threat levels, and drops. Written by Alex Wiltshire, who has made it his life’s work to study Minecraft’s mobs. Illustrated with field sketches throughout by Anton Stenvall.„ — Product details
Trivia
The sketch showing the anatomy of the creeper was likely based on official Minecraft merchandise created by JINX.
In Minecraft Dungeons, there is an anatomical model showing the same anatomy.
Even though the two sources mentioned above and more show creepers to have TNT inside their body, the official Brickheadz Lego set shows a creeper having a TNT in its head.
The spy-chicken superstition mentioned by the Naturalist originated from a Minecraft Alpha tutorial video made by Paul Soares Jr.
In the beginning of the video, Paul was in a cave along with a chicken that seemed to watch him. Though he never mentioned it being a spy in the video itself, he jokingly stated in several comments on the video that the chicken was a spy sent by Saruman and that it had to be executed.
Several pieces of artwork from the book were auctioned off as part of a charity event.
Gallery



			Pigs



			Sheep



			Creeper



			Ghast



			Chicken jockey



			Enderman



			Magma cube



			Vindicator



			Elder guardian



			The wither



			The ender dragon



			Creeper anatomical model from the house in the camp from Minecraft Dungeons.



			A t-shirt design depicting creeper anatomy.



			A vinyl figure depicting creeper anatomy.



			Cover art of the book.







			Cows (sketch only)



			Chickens (sketch only)



			Guardian



			Vex



			Evoker



			Slime






References

 "Minecraft Creeper Anatomy Premium Tee"   (Archive)  by J!NX  – jinx.com, June 30, 2011.

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b3hqxdUEwuI&t=164s

 "Minecraft Tutorials - 14 - How to Survive & Thrive (Death & Compass)"  – paulsoaresjr on YouTube, October 8, 2010

 "Buy Minecraft Art, Help Charity"     by Marsh Davies  – Minecraft.net, October 17, 2017.

Navigation