Minecraft: Stonesword Saga

Author(s)

Nick Eliopulos

Audio read by

Keylor Leigh

Illustrator(s)

Alan Batson
Chris Hill

Country

United States

Language

English

Genre(s)

Children's fiction

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Random House Children's Books

Release date

May 25, 2021 – January 2, 2024

Media type

Print, Digital

Preceded by

Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles

Followed by

Minecraft: Ironsword Academy

{
    "title": "''Minecraft: Stonesword Saga''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Nick Eliopulos article, displayed as Nick Eliopulos)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Keylor Leigh article, displayed as Keylor Leigh)",
            "label": "Audio read by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Alan Batson article, displayed as Alan Batson)\n* (link to Chris Hill article, displayed as Chris Hill)",
            "label": "Illustrator(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:United States article, displayed as United States)",
            "label": "Country"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Children's fiction",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Penguin Random House#Random House Children's Books article, displayed as Random House Children's Books)",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 25, 2021 – January 2, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Print, Digital",
            "label": "Media type"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles article, displayed as Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles)''",
            "label": "Preceded by"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: Ironsword Academy article, displayed as Minecraft: Ironsword Academy)''",
            "label": "Followed by"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Stonesword Saga is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Alan Batson and Chris Hill. The series is a sequel to Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles, following Theo Grayson as he joins the heroes of the prior books.

Contents

1 Stonesword Saga books
2 Gallery

2.1 Logos
2.2 Covers
2.3 Photographs
2.4 Promotional artwork

3 References
4 Navigation

Stonesword Saga books

#

Title

Published

Pages

Plot Synopsis

1

Crack in the Code!

May 25, 2021

144

Someone–or something–has turned the Evoker King to stone. And now a new player, Theo, has joined the team on their quest to return their former enemy to normal. Theo’s [sic] has coding skills that could come in handy, but does he have what it takes to be part of the team, or will his meddling put a crack in the game code that none of them will survive?

2

Mobs Rule!

January 4, 2022

Something has turned the Evoker King to stone, and elements of his code have turned into new and terrible bosses that threaten the digital world of Minecraft. Now Po, Harper, and their friends must travel deep into underground and into a web of danger to face the one of them. But that’s the easy part, because in the real world, Po decides to run for class president and before he knows it, the ground feels like it is opening under his feet and his popularity is about to plummet!

3

New Pets on the Block

June 28, 2022

Everyone knows that Jodi, the youngest member of the team, loves animals in the real world and in Minecraft. She is also fiercely loyal to her friend the Evoker King, who has, very unfortunately, been shattered into six different hostile mobs. When the third piece of the Evoker King takes the form of a Minecraft witch and sends Jodi and her friends on a quest to bring back an extremely rare animal mob, Jodi is determined to make sure that the mob stays safe no matter what! Meanwhile, in the real world, she also learns that taking care of other living creatures is a much bigger responsibility than she ever imagined.

4

To Bee, Or Not to Bee!

January 3, 2023

Harper and her friends tackle a real-life ecological crisis. The bees around their school and the Stonesword Library are disappearing—and a splinter of the Evoker King has taken on the form of a bee colony with a hive mind! Could there be a connection with the rip they’ve seen growing bigger and darker in the Minecraft sky? And will their actions make things better or worse?

5

The Golem's Game!

May 2, 2023

Despite being a great Minecraft player, Morgan feels his leadership of the team slipping away as the next splinter of the Evoker King takes the form of a golem and challenges each member of the team to run a dangerous obstacle course. Normally they would work together, but this time they are each forced to face the challenge alone—with no second chances and a river of hot lava waiting for them if they fail!

6

The End of the Overworld!

January 2, 2024

In their last adventure, Morgan, Harper, and their friends barely survived a dangerous game only to return to a Minecraft Overworld in total chaos! The rift that’s been growing steadily larger in the sky is now on the verge of consuming everything in its path. The team has one chance to save Minecraft and their friend the Evoker King—but it may already be too late.

Gallery
Logos



			Logo for Minecraft: Stonesword Saga


Covers



			Draft cover for Crack in the Code!



			Final cover for Crack in the Code!



			Cover for Mobs Rule!



			Cover for New Pets on the Block



			Cover for To Bee, Or Not to Bee!



			Cover for The Golem's Game!



			Cover for The End of the Overworld!


Photographs






Promotional artwork






References

 Crack in the Code! (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #1) by Nick Eliopulos

 Mobs Rule! (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #2) by Random House

 New Pets on the Block (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #3) by Random House

 To Bee, Or Not to Bee! (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #4) by Nick Eliopulos

 The Golem’s Game! (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #5) by Nick Eliopulos

 The End of the Overworld! (Minecraft: Stonesword Saga #6) by Nick Eliopulos

Navigation