Minecraft is turning 15





Type

Celebration cinematic

Productioncompanies

Rabbit's Foot Studios

Date

May 14, 2024

Length

1:15

{
    "title": "Minecraft is turning 15",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Celebration cinematic",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Rabbit's Foot Studios article, displayed as Rabbit's Foot Studios)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 14, 2024",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:15",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft is turning 15 | Come celebrate with us! is a promotional trailer, announcing the 15 Days of Minecraft event.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Trivia

4.1 Errors

5 Gallery
6 Navigation

Summary
In a void of green, neon blocks, a 15 appears. As it does, a large assortment of mobs, from bees to Noor, as an announcer narrates that Minecraft is turning 15 in 2024. As an iron golem lights several fireworks for baby villagers and an allay, the announcer elaborates, saying that there are "presents" as a sheep cartwheels quite impressively. Describing it as a "blocktacular celebration," Minecraft is going to announce fifteen things across fifteen days to celebrate the fifteenth anniversary of the game Minecraft. As this is explained, many things happen, such as a goat leaping onto a button that releases a flock of parrots, revealing a crafting cap, and a warden does what appears to be a dance with a sniffer.
After a cat awkwardly violates a creeper's personal space, Alex dances around a Nether Portal, tossing around gold nuggets as a piglin emerges, its interest piqued. An iron golem invites the camera into a hallway protected by an iron door, where a spyglass is placed on the ground. Using it, it is revealed that, on the opposite end of the hallway, is a pillager also using a spyglass, who runs away in fear upon being spotted. As the camera recedes down another path, a statue resembling Steve is shown, and looks away. The announcer promises "weird stuff," seguing into a room of skeletons dancing, who get disturbed by the intrusion and almost shoot the camera. The announcer and camera then move on to a picture of Jens looking at a hanging sign in a boat with a chest, which the announcer clarifies we are not meant to see and blurs.
The scene transitions into a study area, where a hoglin is resting, surrounded by various redstone blocks crafting cakes. A chest opens up, briefly revealing the Experience Mod LLC logo, before the camera is quickly ejected from the room and cut off by a goat closing the door. That same goat proceeds to break many of the creeper-like blocks encasing everyone, creating a tunnel that leads to an enderman. An arrow is shot at a decorated pot, as a bat flies over to some villagers and an armored wolf around a campfire. The announcer promises that "it will be a blast," causing a frog to emerge and swallow the camera whole. Inside of the frog, it is revealed there is a kelp forest, with many tropical fish, glow squids, and a pufferfish.
The camera zooms out again, revealing Alex was reading a popup book of the previous scenes on a lectern. As she flips through various pages, a creeper emerges from inside the book, causing her to close the book and throw it away in a panic, right before it explodes. As the announcer announces "the ultimate Minecraft party and you're invited," many other mobs appear, including Steve, Efe, and Sunny. Zuri swoops in with elytra, as the camera tunnels through another set of blocks as more and more mobs appear, before revealing the logo of the anniversary.

Characters

Alex
Allay
Anniversary Narrator
Baby Villager
Bat
Bee
Black Cat
Black Rabbit
Blue Parrot
Brown Llama
Camel
Chestnut Horse
Chick
Chicken
Cow
Creeper
Cyan Parrot
Efe
Ender Dragon
Enderman
Frog
Glow Squid
Goat
Gold Axolotl
Gray Parrot
Green Parrot
Hoglin
Iron Golem
Leucistic Axolotl
Jens Bergensten
Noor
Ocelot
Pale Wolf
Plains Villager
Pig
Piglin
Pillager
Pufferfish
Red Parrot
Silverfish
Skeleton
Sniffer
Snow Fox
Spider
Steve
Sunny
Tropical Fish
Tuxedo Cat
Warden
White Rabbit
White Sheep
White Splotched Rabbit
Zombie
Zuri
Settings

Castle
 Dirt Hut
 Disco Room
 Kelp Forest
 Mass
Nether Portal
 Spyglass Tunnel
 Study
Quotes
“Minecraft will soon be 15 years old! To mark the occasion, we’re hosting a 15-day celebration packed with gifts for you, kicking off from May 15! Get all the info at https://www.minecraft.net
Here's to 15 years of gripping adventures, mind-blowing creations, and a community that has left its mark on every block! How will you shape your world in the next 15 years?„ — Video description
Videos





Trivia

Errors
A pillager can be seen with its in-game texture, as opposed to the minimalist style featured in the rest of the video.
Similarly, when Zuri is gliding using elytra, the elytra use the item sprite instead of the model.
Gallery



			The first shot of the video, and only one with Noor present.



			An allay with an iron golem and two villager children, lighting fireworks.



			A sheep cartwheeling.







			Sheep holding a cake.



			A goat jumping.



			Parrots flying out of a trapdoor.



			The Crafting Cap, later released during the 15th Anniversary Marketplace event.



			A sniffer, a bee, and a warden.



			The three mobs glaring at the camera.



			The three mobs dancing.



			A cat seemingly annoyed by a creeper.



			Alex emerging from a portal, throwing around various gold nuggets.



			Piglin crawling out of the portal, seemingly following Alex.



			An iron golem opening iron doors.







			Pillager fleeing after being seen through a spyglass.



			The seemingly sentient statue.



			Many skeletons dancing under a glowing block of redstone.



			Skeletons interrupted by the narrator, the redstone replaced with a block of gold.



			Skeletons retaliating against the camera and narrator.



			Jens' cameo on a boat with chest.



			Jens' cameo censored.



			Hoglin resting in a packed room.



			A tease for Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue.







			Goat breaking a wall while a black cat watches.



			Enderman holding a present.



			What appears to be an early version of the explorer pottery sherd.



			Villagers around a campfire with a cow, wolf, and bat.



			Closeup of a cow.



			Pig pressing a button.



			The appearance of a frog.



			The frog eating the camera.



			The aquatic section of the video, apparently set inside a stomach.



			The popup book.



			A castle structure in the popup book.



			A creeper appearing inside the popup book, while Efe approaches.



			Steve helping Alex up.



			The final shot of the video.



			Zuri shooting fireworks while flying.


Navigation