This article documents an April Fools' Day joke. 
This feature was exclusively part of a joke version and is not currently planned for addition to regular Minecraft.



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Mine Exit

Consists of

Cracked Deepslate Tiles
Deepslate Tile Slab
Deepslate Tile Stairs
Deepslate Tiles
Mine Travelling Block
Resin Brick Slab
Stripped Pale Oak Log
Stripped Pale Oak Wood

{
    "title": "Mine Exit",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Consists of"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Mine exit.png"
    ]
}

A mine exit is a structure found in mines, only present in the 25w14craftmine update. It allows the player to exit the current mine.

Contents

1 Generation
2 Structure

2.1 File Structure
2.2 Components

3 How to find
4 Issues
5 Navigation

Generation
This structure spawns in mines. They always spawn in one of many predetermined locations; however, there is no pattern to generation. There are multiple different mine exit 'types', namely cave mine exits, surface mine exits, and rare surface mine exits. These types are determined based on which mine ingredient a player inputs.

Structure
Mine exits look similar to the spawning location of a Mine, but the diameter is slightly increased and the roof only has four strips of slabs and stairs. In the middle of the structure, a mine traveling block is in the center to leave the mine.

File Structure
All mine exit structures are located in the folder client.jar/data/minecraft/structure/mine_exits. There are only two, exit_01.nbt and root.nbt.

Components

Structure name

Description

Consists of

Image

Blueprint

mine_exits/exit_01.nbt

6 Cracked Deepslate Tiles
28 Deepslate Tile Slab
8 Deepslate Tile Stairs
26 Deepslate Tiles
1 Mine Travelling Block
20 Resin Brick Slab
5 Stripped Pale Oak Log
4 Stripped Pale Oak Wood

Layer 1

Layer 2

Layer 3

Layer 4

Layer 5

Layer 6

mine_exits/root.nbt consist solely of a jigsaw block.

How to find
By crafting an eye of exit, you can throw it like an eye of ender to have it point to the mine exit. This will damage the player unless you unlocked the pathfinder advancement.
By unlocking the lodestone exits advancement, compasses will always point to the mine exit of that mine, and by getting the starter compass advancement, you spawn with a mine compass in your inventory.
The structure emits a beacon-style column of light directly upward, visible from far away.

Issues
Issues relating to "Mine Exit" are not maintained on the bug tracker because it is an April Fools' joke, and is therefore not in the newest stable version or snapshot. Issues reported there are closed as "Invalid".

Navigation