Minecraft LIVE – September 2025

Type

Minecraft LIVE stream

Music by

Camilo Forero
Niccolo Pacella

Location

Mojang Studios headquarters

Date

September 27, 2025

Length

1:09:10

◄ Minecraft Live – March 2025
Minecraft Live – March 2026 ►

{
    "title": "Minecraft LIVE – September 2025",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Minecraft LIVE article, displayed as Minecraft LIVE) stream",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Camilo Forero\n*Niccolo Pacella",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "Mojang Studios headquarters",
            "label": "Location"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 27, 2025",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:09:10",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">◄ [[Minecraft Live – March 2025]]</div>\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[Minecraft Live – March 2026]] ►</div>"
}

Official logo.
Official artwork for the event.
Minecraft LIVE – September 2025 was a Minecraft LIVE event that took place on September 27, 2025, at 17:00 UTC. It featured information about the Mounts of Mayhem game drop, and revealed the release date for The Copper Age drop.

Contents

1 Livestream
2 Summary

2.1 Pre-show
2.2 Tutorial
2.3 The Copper Age
2.4 Happy Ghast Music Video
2.5 Stories from Minecraft
2.6 Dragon Ball Z DLC
2.7 Mounts of Mayhem
2.8 The Deep Dig

3 Videos

3.1 Announcement trailer
3.2 Promotional videos
3.3 Pre-release
3.4 Social media teasers

4 Gallery

4.1 Recap images
4.2 Promotional images

5 Trivia
6 References
7 Navigation

Livestream





Other versions

"[Audio Description] Minecraft LIVE - September 2025"
"[ASL] Minecraft LIVE - September 2025"
"[BSL] Minecraft LIVE - September 2025"
Summary
Pre-show
There was a 15-minute Community Pre-Show before the main event, featuring content creators discussing Minecraft. The hosts who presented the Pre-Show were YouTubers Aimsey and Shadoune666.

Tutorial
Due to the increasing popularity of Minecraft, an influx of new players are learning about Minecraft for their first time, as noted by Jens Bergensten. This summons a transition featuring a happy ghast moving upwards to reveal a new excerpt. It is introduced by a new voice, comforting that there is no wrong way to play Minecraft and then follows on the first few steps to craft a crafting table and a wooden pickaxe. The narrator is then interrupted by a voice call from Jens who warns to not dig straight down but instead is hastily stopped by the narrator and digs straight down anyway. This causes the narrator to fall a large distance and finds himself in a trial chamber. Havoc is unleashed in the trial chamber, causing the narrator to struggle and pause the game to look online and research how to defeat a mistakenly named breeze. Following the search, he scrolls pass successive bursts of short-form content admitting he became distracted and forgot his original intention. Finally, he leaves the reimagined version of the Internet, and preaches yet again there is no right or wrong way to play the game, noting the numerous tutorials made by the community if the player ever becomes stuck.

The Copper Age
After the tutorial, the devs talked about many of the Copper Age features, including what the community has done with the shelf, how they made the sound effects, mentioning "that it has no ambient sound, and that its sounds came from its movements",  and the Copper Golem statue. During this, they showed a list of all the Copper Age features they will add on the 30th. After all of this, they said that the Happy Ghast was cuter than the Copper Golem, cueing the Happy Ghast song.

Happy Ghast Music Video
Main article: Happy Ghast Music Video
The stream transitions into a music video.
Efe is mining copper ore, only for a happy ghast to appear. In a library Efe hugs the ghast, but gets squished up against bookshelves. The ghast creeps behind a cherry tree, and then unknowingly begins hitting Efe with tentacles. The two begin flying up into the sky, over a badlands biome, and then into a village where Efe steals a bed for no apparent reason. Two warm animals look up at the sky, while two horses race by it, and then Efe gets mobbed by a clutter of spiders in a mineshaft.
In a birch forest, Efe crafts a harness and equips it on the ghast, allowing their friends Kai, Noor, and Alex to fly with them. From there Steve and Alex get their own ghasts, while Efe begins carrying several mobs in boats "for a party." On the ground a villager flees from the boat, and ends up being caught in one against their will. The happy ghast flies with bees, and then serves as an umbrella for Efe, before Efe gets knocked off a mountain by a screaming goat. An armadillo is startled by the suddenly appearing ghast, and then Zuri leaps into water for an unstated reason. From there Efe fights against illagers in a burning forest, again without an apparent context.
The scene cuts to Efe running with a dried ghast from a regular ghast and piglins, before returning to the Overworld, where Efe is ready to kill several cow. Makena tethers a bee to the happy ghast, alongside several other mobs, before they suddenly disappear when Efe flies through an arch into the sky. Suddenly, all nine heroes appear, on their own happy ghasts. Using crossbows, they aim up towards the clouds, and set off a show of fireworks. Efe and the happy ghast fly through, setting off more fireworks, and then return to the arch to fly through it again.

Stories from Minecraft
The segment transitions from a rotating happy ghast and is then voiced by Agnes Larsson, mentioning her surprise with the community's creativeness. Leading from a short, humorous clip, Agnes introduces three individuals whose life involves the usage of Minecraft outside of the game, first beginning with Tee Nuchit.
Tee Nuchit, an aspiring 19-year-old architect from Sweden, firsts describes an anecdote of a friend inviting him to a Minecraft server. Due to the long distance between the two, Tee wanted to show where he lived and through Minecraft, built his hometown, Falun, except it is set in 1920 CE. He describes the process of building in the game crossing similarities with his sketches of imaginary buildings in real life, which then inspired him to pursue the career of architecture. Without Minecraft, his life "would have have been so much different."
Agnes expresses how the in-game world can be used in a variety of ways, being a "source of inspiration" for the next person, Travess Smalley. An artist from the USA, he creates art that can be "translat[ed] on and off of computers," due to becoming enamoured by the different patterns formed by the rotation of glazed terracotta in a 4×4 grid which became a theme for some of his works. He continues to describe the game being the stimulus for his ideas describing how the procedural generation of each world caused him to use randomness and chance more in his pieces.
Once again, Agnes describes the limitless opportunities created by Minecraft, revealing an elderly woman from Uruguay. Known online as Aqumadre, she is a Minecraft streamer who first became exposed to the game through her two sons, both of which are also streamers, where she occasionally appeared in the background of their own streams. This caused a fascination to those interacting in the streamers' communities, asking to introduce who she was. She recalled a moment, when first starting to play, where she encountered a creeper who then proceeded to explode in front of her, evoking a scream. Later, she reflects her positive experiences with the game and the community, being able to have the chance to help so many people.

Dragon Ball Z DLC
Main article: Dragon Ball Z Tease
Climbing up a mountain, Efe discovers six of the seven dragon balls, illuminating a bright light. Placing down the four-star ball, Efe successfully summons Shenron into the Overworld. Efe proceeds to ask an inaudible wish, which Shenron happily grants, first turning Efe into a super saiyan, before being replaced with Goku. After taking a look at himself, several of the other Z Fighters appear.

Mounts of Mayhem
Main article: Mounts of Mayhem



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

The nautilus, zombie nautilus, spear, and zombie horseman were announced.

The Deep Dig



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

An after show called the "Deep Dig" was broadcast following the main show, featuring playthroughs of newly announced content and developer commentary.

Videos





Announcement trailer
Main article: Minecraft LIVE Official Trailer – September 2025
The event was announced in a video which was uploaded to the official Minecraft YouTube Channel on September 10, 2025.





Promotional videos
These are all the videos posted by Minecraft across their social media platforms promoting Minecraft LIVE.

Video

Source

Date

Description

"READY FOR THE NEW FEATURES IN MINECRAFT?"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 20, 2025

YouTube

September 20, 2025

A narrator asks the viewer if they're ready for the new upcoming Minecraft features, then he tells them to tune Minecraft LIVE on September 27 to see their presentation of the features.

"POV September 27 is #MinecraftLIVE" – @minecraft on TikTok, September 19, 2025

TikTok

September 19, 2025

A video from the view of point of a copper golem on the Mojang Redmond Office lobby leaving a red sheet to then go to a mirror to look at himself.

"Squad assembled. Signs up. Countdown locked. #MinecraftLIVE lands Sept 27."  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), September 18, 2025

Twitter

September 18 2025

A group of Copper Golems marching at the front of the Swedish Parliament with one of them holding a sign saying "Minecraft LIVE September 27"

"Pass along the message: #MinecraftLIVE is September 27!" – @minecraft on TikTok, September 18, 2025

TikTok

September 18, 2025

A video with several featured content creators on the Mojang HQ passing down each other a sign saying "Minecraft LIVE September 27" while the video is panning down with every content creator in between

"#MinecraftLIVE is almost here, with some amazing special guests attending! Hope to see you there!" – @minecraft on TikTok, September 17, 2025

TikTok

September 17, 2025

Various people, including some featured content creators and Mojang staff as Agnes and Vu walking off a room like some sort of a red carpet event with photo flashes on the Mojang HQ with several plushies on the walls with nametags on their heads.

"FRIENDLY REMINDER, DON'T FORGET!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 14, 2025

YouTube

September 14, 2025

A female narrator telling the viewer friendly reminder about some Minecraft facts, reminding at the end to watch Minecraft LIVE at September 27

"We back. Tune into #MinecraftLIVE September 27th for new game drops, developer secrets, special guests and more!" – @minecraft on TikTok, September 10, 2025

TikTok

September 10, 2025

A person disguised like Steve pulling out of a chest a sign that says "Minecraft LIVE September 27"

Pre-release
Main article: Why You Must Watch Minecraft Live 2025!
A pre-release video discussing what will be announced at Minecraft LIVE was released on September 24, 2025.





Social media teasers
See also: Social media teasers § Mounts of Mayhem

On September 26, 2025, Mojang uploaded some teasers for the next drop on their social media.

Date

Social media platform

Link

Teased feature

Image/Video

Note

September 26, 2025

Twitter

Link

Nautilus

Instagram

Link

TikTok

Link

YouTube

Link

Link

WhatsApp

N/A

Discord

Link

September 27, 2025

YouTube

Link

Gallery
Recap images



			Thumbnail for the Mounts of Mayhem recap.



			Thumbnail for the Copper Age features.



			The Happy Ghast song.



			DragonBall Z DLC



			Stories from Minecraft thumbnail.



			Preshow thumbnail.



			The DEEP DIG thumbnail.


Promotional images



			Old thumbnail for the trailer.



			A copper golem that can't fit in the X (formerly Twitter) banner ratio.



			A copper golem that can fit in the X (formerly Twitter) banner ratio.



			A copper golem holding up a sign promoting the event.



			An iron golem giving an oxidized copper golem a poppy and an invitation.



			An oxidized copper golem receiving a poppy and an invitation poster.



			A oxidized copper Golem accessing a normal copper chest.



			Global showtimes.



			Content Creator Shadoune scraping oxidation off a copper Golem.



			A Happy Ghast flying past London.



			Oxidized Copper Golem holding a birch sign with Minecraft Live on it.



			Steve crying.



			Steve feels better.



			Copper Golem Hoodie promo.



			Minecraft Live post announcing the show 11 hours prior to the show's start time.[verify]


Trivia
The interface used for the in-show article
One of the screen transitions during Tutorial section includes a Minecraft Wiki reference, even linking to the rainbow sheep article.
This was the first LIVE since 2021 to announce again the next update's name instead of announcing it in a later date.
References

 "Minecraft LIVE - September 2025"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 27, 2025, name of YouTube video

Navigation