This article is missing information about: The book it was followed by 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Minecraft: Construction Handbook

Author(s)

Matthew Needler
Phil Southam

Language

English

Genre(s)

Guidebook

Set in

Minecraft

Release date

August 26, 2014

Preceded by

Minecraft: Combat Handbook

{
    "title": "Minecraft: Construction Handbook",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Matthew Needler article, displayed as Matthew Needler)\n* (link to Phil Southam article, displayed as Phil Southam)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Guidebook",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "August 26, 2014",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Minecraft: Combat Handbook article, displayed as Minecraft: Combat Handbook)",
            "label": "Preceded by"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Construction Handbook is a guide that contains various building tutorials and images of community builds. Most of the tutorials are followed by more advanced community builds, with at least one of them being by FyreUK, with the exception of the roller coasters.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Contents
3 Videos
4 Gallery
5 Navigation

Synopsis
“There's nothing that can't be built in Minecraft, but with so many possibilities, where do you start? And how will you ever match the creative flair of the experts?The official Minecraft Construction Handbook is packed with tips and step-by-step instructions from master building team FyreUK. You'll learn how to construct houses, bridges, ships, floating islands, and roller coasters that will amaze other players.Plus, check out some of the most awe-inspiring community builds to fuel your own creative genius. You'll be a master builder in no time!„ — Original description
Contents
There are two types of pages within the book, tutorials and community builds.

Title

Page(s)

Description

Introduction

6-7

A description of what's in the book, tips for staying safe online, and a note from FyreUK.

Wooden House

8-11

An 8 step tutorial for a wooden house using oak wood, cobblestone, and glass.

Community Creations

12-14

Chateau de Resquer by salmon77 and Nordic Hall by FyreUK.

Decorative Garden

16-19

A 4 step tutorials for adding a pool, garden, fountain, or maze to the back of the previous house.

Community Creations

20-23

Stream Cottage by halfdemonanbu and Palace Gardens by FyreUK.

Fortified Wall

24-27

A 4 step tutorial for a wall made of cobblestone, stone bricks, and oak planks, followed by a 4 step tutorial for towers to attatch to the walls, using the same materials.

Community Creations

28-31

Mage City Walls by FyreUK and Large Medieval City Wall by sir_beret.

Royal Hall

32-35

An 8 step tutorial to build a throne room with a carpet, a throne, and pillars.

Community Creations

36-39

Dwarven City and Palace, both by FyreUK.

Suspension Bridge

40-43

An 8 step tutorial for a bridge, made of oak wood, oak fences, and gravel.

Community Creations

44-47

Tower Bridge by geroo and Mage Bridge by FyreUK.

Floating Island

48-53

A 4 step tutorial to build a floating island, followed by another 4 steps to build a castle on the island.

Community Creations

54-57

Mage Tower Islands by nefashus and Steampunk City by FyreUK.

Galleon Ship

58-63

An 8 step tutorial for a big ship with sails and flags.

Community Creations

64-67

Mage Ships by FyreUK and Pirate Island Ship by heaven_lord.

Epic Roller Coaster

68-73

A 4 step tutorial to build a wooden roller coaster, with a subsection titled "Advanced Features" showing off some non-basic designs.

Community Creations

74-77

Red Dragon Coaster by crespochimp and No Escape by ihdvibe22.

Final Words from FyreUK

78

A congratulations for reaching the end of the book, and the question that FyreUK gets asked the most, with the answer.

Useful Links

79

Two sections, with one leading to various Minecraft websites, including the Minecraft Wiki, and various other unofficial websites.

Videos





Gallery



			Cover of the book



			Cover of the updated version of the book














Navigation