The contents of this page are not supported by Mojang Studios. 

Many references have been made in culture in response to the popularity of Minecraft, from cameos, parodies, to subtle allusions.

Contents

1 Video games

1.1 Air Mech
1.2 Alone in the Park
1.3 The Binding of Isaac
1.4 Borderlands 2
1.5 BowMasters
1.6 Choplifter HD
1.7 Cookie Clicker
1.8 Createrria: craft your games
1.9 Deltarune
1.10 Die of Death
1.11 DinoRun SE
1.12 Dusk of D.A.W.N.
1.13 The Elder Scrolls
1.14 Epic Battle Fantasy 4
1.15 Evoland 2
1.16 Fable
1.17 Genshin Impact
1.18 Geometry Dash
1.19 Goat Simulator
1.20 Guardian Tales
1.21 Happy Color
1.22 Hearthstone
1.23 Henry Stickmin
1.24 Honkai: Star Rail
1.25 Hybrid
1.26 I'm Not a Robot
1.27 Life is Strange 2
1.28 Magicka
1.29 Marvel Rivals
1.30 McPixel
1.31 Naughty Bear: Panic in Paradise
1.32 Octodad
1.33 Offensive Combat
1.34 PixelJunk Shooter 2
1.35 Plague Inc.
1.36 Saints Row
1.37 The Stanley Parable
1.38 Stick RPG 2
1.39 Strikeforce Kitty 2
1.40 Supreme Duelist
1.41 The Talos Principle
1.42 Team Fortress 2
1.43 There Is No Game: Wrong Dimension
1.44 Torchlight II
1.45 Transformice
1.46 Troll Face Quest Video Games
1.47 vivid/stasis
1.48 Vlogger Go Wild

2 TV shows and movies

2.1 Adventure Time
2.2 Caillou
2.3 Dandadan
2.4 Honey Nut Cheerios
2.5 Infomercials
2.6 Marvel Cinematic Universe
2.7 Mad
2.8 Oshi no Ko
2.9 Ready Player One
2.10 Rick and Morty
2.11 Robot Chicken
2.12 Royal Crackers
2.13 Roys Bedoys
2.14 Shameless
2.15 The Simpsons
2.16 South Park
2.17 The Tonight Show
2.18 Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!
2.19 The Walking Deceased
2.20 Wonder
2.21 The Fixies

3 Print media

3.1 A Boy Made of Blocks
3.2 Archie Comics
3.3 Call of the Night
3.4 Gameknight999
3.5 The Huge Book of Graphic Novels for Minecrafters
3.6 Invader Zim
3.7 Kaguya-sama: Love Is War
3.8 Kalle Anka & C:o
3.9 Marvel Comics
3.10 My Middle Name is Minecraft

4 Music

4.1 Cavetown
4.2 Eve
4.3 Tenacious D
4.4 YouTube Rewind

5 Social media

5.1 The Game Awards
5.2 Undertale and Deltarune

6 References
7 Navigation

Video games
Air Mech
Creepers appear as a unit "skin" for the suicide bomber unit the boomer. Creepers can be either green, blue, or red, depending on the color of the team that makes them.

Alone in the Park
Steve is an unlockable character with a projectile that looks like a stone pickaxe.​[more information needed]

The Binding of Isaac
In the Wrath of the Lamb DLC, an item exists known as the Notched Axe, which is stylized like a miniature pickaxe. In the Afterbirth DLC, an item based off TNT called the Mine Crafter exists.



			Inventory sprite of the Notched Axe










Borderlands 2
In Caustic Caverns, creepers can be found in a hidden cave, along with several breakable blocks, including dirt, stone, and coal ore. When killed, they can drop weapons themed after Minecraft. Steve's head is a wearable item in the game.






BowMasters
A character in the "Gamer Pack" group called "Digger Steve" is a clear reference to Steve. His tagline is "his main craft - to dig" and he wields a diamond pickaxe as his weapon. The character is locked and can be unlocked in several ways such as being directly purchased, or won randomly in a lootbox chest.



			Character page


Choplifter HD
There is a hidden island inhabited by Steve and some chickens in the mission called "Operation Charlie Takedown". Saving Steve aka "Blockhead" is one of the steps needed to unlock an in-game achievement called "No Stone Unturned", which requires finding all secrets.






Cookie Clicker
The name of achievement "Never dig down" is a reference of a well-known Minecraft tip.



			Icon



			Unlock Notification



			Tooltip


Createrria: craft your games
"Mr. Pixel" has a face similar to Steve's.



			Key art showing Mr.Pixel.


Deltarune
Throughout the game, there are several references made to "Minecrap", both a parody of Minecraft and a reference to a controversial video created by content creator Mike Matei, where Inspector Gadget remarks that he "likes building brown bricks with Minecrap". Talking to a hacker character near the end of the chapter will have him mention that he plans to mine 1,000 blocks of "Bubsidian" in the game in order to make his dog three colors. Additionally, it is mentioned by the character Spamton in the game's "Weird" alternate route, if the player interacts with a door that is normally accessible but is closed off in said route.



			Minecrap being mentioned


Die of Death
There is an upcoming skin for the killer Pursuer that turns him into a Minecraft version of himself. A wood and stone block with the previous texture can be found in the Garden and Theater locations of the Lobby, respectively.














DinoRun SE
During character creation, Steve's head is a wearable hat, and clicking on the head when equipped will give the body a two tone coloration referencing his cyan shirt and blue trousers.



			Looking at the camera



			Looking forward



			Looking at background



			Climbing a steep surface


Dusk of D.A.W.N.
A vehicle card is labeled "Mine Craft", and has the description "The Mine Craft is truly top-notch." Furthermore, Notch's Twitter icon at the time is visible on the card.



			The card in question


The Elder Scrolls
Within The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, an item exists, known as the Notched Pickaxe, named after Notch.



			The Notched Pickaxe in the overworld


Epic Battle Fantasy 4
Several Minecraft references are made throughout the game. There is dialogue in the Crystal Cave that alludes to Minecraft, while a snowman in Whitefall Town is in the form of a creeper. In the expansion and the Steam version, the Diamond Golem is introduced, which upon seeing the character Matt remarks he would like to use to make a diamond sword.

Evoland 2
"Dreaded Creepers" can be found as a mob in The Mine, present era. If the player gets killed by a Dreaded Creeper, they unlock the sssSSSSSss BOOM! achievement.

Fable
Available for free on the Xbox Live Marketplace is a hat labeled Dave's Hat, evoking how player skins look in Minecraft.



			Screenshot of Dave's Hat


Genshin Impact
After reaching Reputation Level 2 in the nation of Mondstadt, the player is given a world quest titled "Mine Craft". They have to talk to the blacksmith of Mondstadt city, Wagner, to ask him about finding ores. Wagner says he knows some good places to mine and explains that there are many types of ores. After talking to him, the quest is completed, and rich ore reserves containing crystal chunks and magical crystal chunks will be marked on the player's map across the nation.



			The quest selected in the quest menu


Geometry Dash
Beating level 16 (Hexagon Force) on normal mode rewards the player with a creeper face cube. This can also be colored to make it look like a normal one.



			The achievement



			The cube colored similarly to the original creeper


Goat Simulator
Within the map Goat City Bay, the player can find three separate blocks based off those in Minecraft. The "grass and dirt block" resembles a grass block, and is found behind the skate ramp. The stone block looks like cobblestone, and is found inside the cemetery. The wood block is a plank block, and is hidden behind a tree.
Collecting all three blocks will earn the achievement Builder Goat, and unlock a mutator based off Minecraft mobs, predating the actual goat mob.



			The Goat Simulator take on a Minecraft-style goat


Guardian Tales
In World 22: Mount Volver of Guardian Tales, a new puzzle mechanic was introduced where the player can use water to solidify lava. In the second stage of this world, there is a side quest that begins when the player completes a portal frame made of solidified lava. When the puzzle is solved, the frame activates and a purple portal appears. From it, an NPC resembling Steve named Sting and a chicken emerge.
Sting wonders where they are, and the player can respond in several ways such as welcoming them, asking for emerald armor in exchange, or questioning if they came from lava and whether they are resistant to fire types. After observing the hot environment, Sting declares their travel a success. He explains that they have been traveling across the world to create the best lava chicken, repeatedly entering the wrong portals until now. After inspecting the lava, he deems its properties perfect.
Sting then destroys an indestructible rock using a golden pickaxe, places the chicken in a building with a furnace, and a parody of the "Steve's Lava Chicken" song plays. The player can help by opening passages and clearing obstacles for the lava flow. Once the lava reaches the chicken, Sting sings, and after it is cooked, both Sting and the player character eat it.
Finally, Sting expresses satisfaction and prepares to go home. However, when he checks his map, he is shocked to find that he is 12,345 / -2399 / 999 XYZ coordinates away from the village he built where his 48 cats live, and he laments that all his looting was pointless. A star piece then drops from him.
Later, in the final stage after the Eternal Flame was defeated, Sting appears in the human village of the volcanic region, saying it is a great village to rob, quickly correcting himself and saying he means to build a house there.



			Sting and his chicken meets the Knight (in-story) — player is using Lahn



			The Knight's first dialogue options



			Sting is asking the Knight.



			Sting is mentioning his goal.



			The Knight's second set of dialogue options



			Sting is singing a parody of "Steve's Lava Chicken".



			Sting is looking at his map.



			Sting's home coordinates



			Sting's lament



			Sting appears in the human village of Mount Volver



			Chicken NPC side idle



			Sting NPC side idle



			Sting's lava chicken


Happy Color
An available picture to color in appears to be a Minecraft-like scene with blocks including flowering azalea leaves, oak logs, and grass blocks.



			A Minecraft-like scene


Hearthstone
The name of achievement "Three Diamonds + Two Sticks" is a reference to the crafting recipe of a diamond pickaxe.
The card "Digging Straight Down" and its flavor text "You only make this mistake once." are also references to a well-known Minecraft tip.
The flavor text of the card "Destructive Blaze" ("You are required to kill a couple of these to reach the End.") is reference of the blaze, which drops an item that is part of the crafting recipe for eye of ender that allows the player to reach the End.

Henry Stickmin
In The Henry Stickmin Collection, there are multiple references to Minecraft throughout the chapters:

In the prologue, Breaking the Bank, if the player chooses the "shovel" option, Henry tries to get inside the bank by digging under the walls, but hits and ignites a gas main; the failure message is "Never dig straight down.", a well-known Minecraft tip.
In chapter 2, Stealing the Diamond, if the player selects the "sneak in" option and then the "pickaxe", Henry begins to mine the wall of the museum the diamond is in, only for a creeper to come up behind him and explode. Henry survives, however, and the explosion gave the entrance that Henry needed.
In chapter 5, Completing the Mission, there are multiple references to Minecraft throughout the routes.
If the player launches with the "Government Supported Private Investigator" and "Convict Allies" ending, and then selects the "jetpack" option, the player can select the "build" option, in which Henry begins building a bridge out of dirt blocks from the building he is standing on to the Toppat rocket. However, Henry runs out of dirt blocks and accidentally walks off the edge, and falls to his death, dropping a stick, steak and leather boots, with the fail message saying "You died!", similar to the Minecraft death screen.
If the player launches with the "Government Supported Private Investigator" and "Ghost Inmate" ending, and then selects the "Magic Hat" and "Free Transform" options, the player can select the "Leafmöde" option, and a diamond block can be seen near the painting and a diamond helmet can be seen somewhere.



			A creeper as it appears in the game


Honkai: Star Rail
In Honkai: Star Rail's Divergent Universe: Arcadian Chronicles, several Grand Miracle names reference other video games, such as "Left 2 Die" (Left 4 Dead), "Bright Souls" (Dark Souls), "First Fantasy" (Final Fantasy), "Tomb Rizzler" (Tomb Raider), and "Word of Godcraft" (World of Warcraft). One Grand Miracle references Minecraft with its name "Yourcraft". Its effect increases the number of cards drawn by one during the drawing phase.

Hybrid
Steve's head is an unlockable helmet.​[more information needed]

I'm Not a Robot
Level 21 prompts the user to craft a diamond pickaxe, providing them with a crafting table grid, 2 oak logs, and 3 diamonds.



			Screenshot of gameplay


Life is Strange 2
Several references are made to Minecraft, including the character Daniel being a fan of the game.​[more information needed]



			Screenshot of the game


Magicka
In the 2011 action adventure game Magicka, endermen appear as one of the enemies, possessing teleportation powers and attacks that can kill the player in one hit.



			Fighting an enderman in Magicka


Marvel Rivals
The description for the Jeff the Land Shark skin 8-Bit Bash originally had Deadpool remark that he was "starting to look like a Minecraft mod". Following the skin's official release, however, the description was altered to remove the reference.






McPixel
In McPixel, a creeper can be seen and interacted with in a level.[verify]

Naughty Bear: Panic in Paradise
The player can buy a diamond pickaxe which, according to the game, is made by "Kick it up a Notch Pickaxes", referring to Notch.​[more information needed]

Octodad
In the 2014 installment Octodad: Dadliest Catch, the supermarket level has a "Mintcraft" display. This is an obvious parody of Minecraft, even including toy pickaxes and a creeper head.



			The display


Offensive Combat
A stone pickaxe can be used as a melee weapon with the name of "The Notch Carver".

PixelJunk Shooter 2
Multiple creepers appear in the PlayStation 3 background art for PixelJunk Shooter 2.



			Full art with creepers highlighted using red circles


Plague Inc.
There is a chance for a message in the news to appear with the headline "Top notch mine opens in Sweden", and the caption "Miners and crafters look forward to the opening of a new, top notch diamond mine which is expected to revitalize the Swedish economy". Other messages include "Creeper arrested for destruction of virtual property" and "Microsoft saves sheepish miner, rides into sunset."



			Screenshot of the reference


Saints Row
Steve is a uniform named "Craft Miner".​[more information needed]



			The outfit in a menu


The Stanley Parable
Among the endings is one which features a Minecraft setting. This was replaced with a Firewatch setting in the Ultra Deluxe remake of the game.






Stick RPG 2
In Stick RPG 2, a creeper can be found within a window on the dirt of the Fourth Island.



			A creeper Easter egg that can be found in a game called Stick RPG 2


Strikeforce Kitty 2
In the level 6 "Swamp 2", Steve is one of the unlockable outfits, named "Pitman", wielding an iron pickaxe. After defeating him 3 times the full set is unlocked, and equipping it gives the Kitty the ability to break barriers.



			Level start menu showing Steve



			Fully unlocked costume



			Equipped set showing gear stats and ability


Supreme Duelist
Steve's head is a wearable hat along with a "pickaxe" weapon that can place blocks such as cobblestone, TNT, and a piston.

The Talos Principle
There is a hidden easter egg room that contains various well-known blocks from games, including the grass block from Minecraft.



			The room as it appears in the game


Team Fortress 2
A hat called Top Notch exists which resembles Notch's avatar, complete with a cubic form. The face on the hat has a cardboard texture. Notch is the only person to have this hat, with the description referencing this by discussing a "secret society so exclusive it makes the Illuminati look like a Costco." If the hat is worn by Demoman, his eyepatch is added to the hat, albeit in an equally crude form.



			Render of the Top Notch



			Demoman's own Top Notch


There Is No Game: Wrong Dimension
There is a RPG Dimension called Legend of the Secret, with a free to play variant, Legend of the Secret: Ultimate Clicker V.I.P. Edition Deluxe 4.2 Free featuring lootboxes that contain parody ads. One of those ads is Ninecraft, a spoof featuring C418-like background music. The player can break the title, get nine puzzle pieces, and combine them in a 3×3 grid to make a pickaxe useful in gameplay. The character Game also comments on Ninecraft as "another one of those 'indie games' that's doomed to fail".



			Ninecraft


Torchlight II
An area can be found named Notch's Cavern, featuring enemy creepers and swords which use the same sprite as Minecraft at the time.






Transformice
In the 2010 Transformice online platform game, several items reference Minecraft, including a creeper mask, diamond pickaxe, and moobloom fur.



			The moobloom-themed fur item from Transformice


















Troll Face Quest Video Games
In the game on Level 7, a kid is building blocks with a virtual reality headset, before being interrupted by a zombie and a skeleton, which turn out to be the parents of the kid if the headset was taken off.

vivid/stasis
The protagonist, Saturday, compares the way The Duskbreaker works with "the Far Place" in "Mineblast", referencing the Far Lands.



			The exchange mentioning Mineblast


Vlogger Go Wild
After buying the 9th Studio Equipment upgrade "Figurine Shelf", there is a model of a pickaxe stuck to a grass block.



			Room with Figurine Shelf unlocked


TV shows and movies
Adventure Time
"Diamonds and Lemons" is a bonus episode of Adventure Time, which aired between the season 10 episodes "Gumbaldia" and the series finale "Come Along With Me." It is the two hundred and seventy-ninth episode overall. It serves as a crossover of sorts between Adventure Time and the game Minecraft.

Caillou
As part of the revival Caillou's New Adventures, an episode entitled "Caillou's Video Game Adventure" was produced. The plot centered around Caillou playing a video game called "Dig and Build", a parody of Minecraft.






Dandadan
A subtle Minecraft reference appears in the Dandadan manga, later adapted in the show on Season 2, Episode 9, where a blocky Steve-like character called Ludris (ルドリス Rudorisu) that only says "Craft", offers the main cast a shapeshifting nanotechnology with the initial appearance of cobblestone called Nanoskin (ナノスキン Nanosukin). These blocks are used to rebuild the house.



			The reference in the show


Honey Nut Cheerios
In the mid-2010s[verify], a commercial for the cereal Honey Nut Cheerios was released themed after video games, referred to as both Game On and Fuel the Fun. In the ad, several video game scenarios are recreated using pieces of the cereal to represent the characters or objects. These include Mario in World 1-1, a game of Tetris, a game of Pong, a game of Galaga, and a tree being chopped in Minecraft. In this depiction, a pickaxe is used to collect individual cheerios.

Infomercials
The 34th episode, Final Deployment 4: Queen Battle Walkthrough, revolves around a streamer playing a video game, continuing into a post-game that gets gradually more bizarre and closer to real life. This culminates in a series of let's plays within let's plays, with the fourth level of the inception being a Minecraft parody called Moonshaft. Inside this game, the protagonist, Moonwalker, is stationed on a Moon, and has to collect various blue rocks resembling ores, staying clear of "moon monsters". Eventually, this character crafts a computer, and begins playing a game themself, Captain Lion: Lion's Roar. Later, it is revealed that Moonwalker, as well as all the other players/player characters are feeling a deep existential emptiness.






















Marvel Cinematic Universe
In Girl in the Flower Dress, the fifth episode of the first season of Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Jemma Simmons mentions to Grant Ward and Leopold Fitz that the hacker Miles Lydon, Skye's ex-boyfriend, apparently "plays a lot of Minecraft where he runs a really nasty mob". When Fitz wonders if it's a zombie, Simmons explains it's "zombie pigmen". Later in Spider-Man: No Way Home, a model of a Spider-Man Minecraft skin made of fusible plastic beads can be seen in the background in the movie.[verify]

Mad
In the 2010 animated series Mad, Minecraft is parodied on two separate occasions. The first is the 32nd episode "ThunderLOLcats", which parodied the 2011 ThunderCats by referencing many memes of the early 2010s era. In one scene, creepers make an appearance with a smiling appearance, similar to the smiling creeper. In the 34th episode, entitled "Criminal Minecraft", a crossover parody with the series Criminal Minds is shown, depicting a conflict wherein Mark Zuckerberg tries to destroy Minecraft.










Oshi no Ko
In Oshi no Ko Season 3, Episode 1 Down Bad, a scene briefly shows Minecraft-style terrain and builds on a screen, referencing the game's visual style.



			A character standing in front of Minecraft


Ready Player One
The opening scene in the OASIS shows a world based on Minecraft.​[more information needed]










Rick and Morty
In The Rickchurian Mortydate, the titular characters are seen playing Minecraft throughout parts of the episode.​[more information needed]



			Rick and Morty in a gravely cave


Robot Chicken
In the stop-motion sketch comedy series Robot Chicken, Minecraft is parodied on two separate occasions. The first is the season 8 episode "Joel Hurwitz", where a sheep gets seduced by Steve, only to get brutally beaten by a cow. In another season 8 episode, entitled "Western Hay Batch", God is outraged when the creator of Minecraft claims he has more money than Him.

Royal Crackers
The first season finale, "Craftopia", is set within a parody of Minecraft called Craftopia.​[more information needed]










Roys Bedoys
In the episode "Be Patient With Your Little Brother", Roys Bedoys teaches his brother Loys how to craft brown concrete.

Shameless
In season 4, one of Lip's roommates is a Minecraft player.​[more information needed]

The Simpsons
In season 25 episode 17, Luca$, the title screen, billboard, and couch gag of the episode is a Minecraft parody entitled "Simcraft". In the title screen, there is a splash that says "Parodies are easy!" after the "Simcraft" logo is shown. The couch gag features Moe as a creeper blowing up the house.



			The Simpsons in a Minecraft-like style



			The title screen also in a Minecraft-like style



			The billboard gag being made of blocks similar to Minecraft


South Park
In season 17, the episode Informative Murder Porn depicts a kid teaching Minecraft to adults. Later, in the season 20 episode Skank Hunt, a poster of Minecraft Story Mode can be seen on Ike's wall.










The Tonight Show
Following the release of A Minecraft Movie, a skit was made referencing the Chicken Jockey sensation.

Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!
Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out! Season 1, Episode 4, features a parody game titled "Meowcraft", complete with a somewhat dirt cave and a zombie, referencing Minecraft's gameplay and visual style.



			Meowcraft gameplay


The Walking Deceased
In the trailer of the movie The Walking Deceased, the Minecraft zombie sound can be heard at 0:30.

Wonder
The protagonist August "Auggie" Pullman is a Minecraft player. There is a scene involving Jack Will apologizing to him via Minecraft.​[more information needed]

The Fixies
In episode 6 of Season 6 of The Fixies（Фиксики）, Nolik hits building blocks with a diamond pickaxe. Vertix asks what he is busy doing. Nolik replies that Jim invited him to watch a documentary about miners, which gave him the idea of becoming a miner and mining with a diamond pickaxe.






Print media
A Boy Made of Blocks
Cover of the book
Released on September 1, 2016, A Boy Made of Blocks is a novel about a father bonding with his autistic child, particularly by playing Minecraft, the namesake of the book.​[more information needed]

Archie Comics
In 2025, ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP! released. A one-shot issue of the popular Archie comic book series, centered around various stories of Archie and his friends playing video games. One story, entitled Servers You Right!, revolves around the gang playing "Crafty Miners", a parody of Minecraft. Conflict arises when the character Reggie Mantle joins the server, instantly breaking it into chaos. The story was written by Ian Flynn, who coincidentally previously wrote a story in Minecraft: Stories from the Overworld. This issue was intended to coincide with the release of A Minecraft Movie.


			Cover of ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP!



			A page of ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP!



			Another page of ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP!


Call of the Night
Cover of the page (Chapter 24)
In Call of the Night manga (Chapter 24), one of the characters, Nazuna, is shown playing Minecraft on a TV using a controller, excitedly saying, "I found a diamond!" The panel depicts a first-person view of a hole with stone and diamond ore blocks, dual-wielding a pickaxe and a torch, and HUD that mimics Minecraft.

Gameknight999
Cover of the first installment
A trilogy of unofficial novels based off Minecraft, featuring Herobrine as the main antagonist.​[more information needed]

The Huge Book of Graphic Novels for Minecrafters
Cover of the book
A collection of three unofficial Minecraft stories, composed of "over 2,200 images". The book tells the story of a girl named Phoenix, who discovers her parents died fighting the ender dragon, and goes on a quest to finish their legend. Along the way she fights many foes, including Herobrine, and "corruption that threatens to destroy all of Xenos".

Invader Zim
Dib terrified
Invader Zim is a comic book continuation of the Nickelodeon animated series of the same name. In Issue 5, Dib is banished into a Minecraft-like video game as revenge by Gaz.

Kaguya-sama: Love Is War
In the 270th chapter of the manga Kaguya-sama: Love Is War, the characters play a game entitled "Winecraft."









Kalle Anka & C:o
Photo of the magazine taken by Jens
In an issue of the Swedish Donald Duck magazine, Jens Bergensten makes a cameo appearance. In the segment he is stylized as a duck with a T-shirt featuring a Donald skin, and gives programming tips.​[more information needed]

Marvel Comics
During Issue 16 of the 2013 run of The Superior Spider-Man, Carlie Cooper can be seen wearing a creeper hoodie. During Issue 26 of The Immortal Hulk, Amadeus Cho asks if Bruce Banner "still plays Minecraft on Peaceful".



			Carlie Cooper as she appears in The Superior Spider-Man no.16






My Middle Name is Minecraft
Cover of the book
An unofficial novel, telling the story of Jayden "Minecraft" Montgomery being transported into the Minecraft universe with the help of a fox.​[more information needed]

Music
Cavetown
Cover of the single.
Squares / y 13, released on January 14, 2022, is a single containing 2 songs, titled squares and y 13, both using some of C418's music from Minecraft - Volume Alpha. squares uses music from "Sweden" and contains lyrics about the first day and night of a new world. y 13 uses music from "cat" and has lyrics pertaining to mining for diamonds.

Eve
During the music video for Underdog, animated by OFF SCRIPT, released November 28, 2025, there is a scene where Kake attacks Aira, shown from Aira's perspective. Her view has a HUD overlaid, showing that she is in Survival mode with full health and that she has 5 totems of undying, holding one in the main hand. Kake kills her in one hit, making the totem activate.
The animators have also made a short animation promoting the song, where Kake and Aira are shown playing skyblock, and Aira messes up the cobblestone generator.



			Kake attacks Aira



			Aira's undying totem activates



			Aira messes up the cobblestone generator in a Skyblock island.


Tenacious D
Jack Black's Minecraft form.During Video Games, a special single devoted to the video game medium, Jack Black appeared in various forms parodying several video games. Among these is a Minecraft-style model, holding a diamond pickaxe.

YouTube Rewind
During the 2012 installment of YouTube Rewind, multiple references to Minecraft are made. At one point, a clip from the CaptainSparklez video Fallen Kingdom is shown. Later, two people dressed as Steve in a diamond helmet dance to the rhythm of Gangnam Style. During the 2014 installment, Minecraft is briefly referenced with a live action sequence, before seguing to Last Week Tonight with John Oliver.

















Social media
The Game Awards
At The Game Awards 2024, during a conversation about chickens, Geoff Keighley and Muppets star Gonzo briefly look at a picture of a chicken mob. At The Game Awards 2025, Muppets star Rowlf the Dog offhandedly mentioned Minecraft during a song listing off many other video game properties.



			Gonzo and his board about chickens



			Miss Piggy watching Rowlf sing


Undertale and Deltarune
On September 17, 2022, as part of the Spamton Sweepstakes alternate reality game, an in-universe forum page was released in which the character Berdly discusses issues he is having with "Minecrap." This name was previously used to reference Minecraft within the main game Deltarune.
On September 21, 2025, a live stream was held to celebrate the tenth anniversary of Undertale. During the first day of the stream, series creator Toby Fox recounts a story where he flew on a plane and showed an old man his game. He asked the man show it to his kids, but doesn't know if he ever did, and jokes that the man dismissed it saying "This is mid. They should play Minecraft."



			An unfictional comment left mentioning Minecrap



			Toby Fox recounting the story


References

 "Notched Axe"     – Binding of Isaac: Rebirth Wiki.

 "Mine Crafter"     – Binding of Isaac Wiki.

 "Borderlands 2 - Minecraft Easter Egg"  – Achievement Hunter on YouTube, September 18, 2012

 "Creeper"     – Borderlands Wiki.

 https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=503601498

 "Choplifter HD: Minecraft Cameo"  – Dennis Miller on YouTube, October 12, 2011

 "Minecraft Monday Show - NEW Minecraft Easter Egg In ChopLifter HD! - Release Jan 11th"  – Bebop Vox on YouTube, January 8, 2012

 "Achievements/Trivia"     – Cookie Clicker Wiki.

 "Minecraft with Gadget by Mike Matei"  – Cinemassacre Clips on YouTube, May 9, 2020

 "Media in Deltarune"     – Deltarune Wiki.

 "Mine Craft" from Dusk of D.A.W.N. - A small tribute! – Reddit, u/FjordGames, August 17, 2013

 "UPDATE: Minecraft Easter Egg Pops Up In Skyrim"     – Game Informer.

 "Skyrim:Notched Pickaxe"     – UESP Wiki - The Unofficial Elder Scrolls Pages - TES Wiki & Lore.

 "Crystal Golem"     – Epic Battle Fantasy Wiki.

 "Diamond Golem"     – Epic Battle Fantasy Wiki.

 "The Mine"     – Evoland Wiki.

 "Evoland 2 achievements"     – Evoland Wiki.

 "Wagner"     – Genshin Impact Wiki.

 "Mine Craft"     – Genshin Impact Wiki.

 "References (Season 2)"     – Life is Strange Wiki.

 "Cthulhu Creatures"     – Magickapedia.

 "Magicka: Fighting The Endermen"  – CTheConnor on YouTube, March 26, 2012

  "The Minecraft reference in Jeff's 8-bit skin description got changed" – u/dejuna1 on Reddit

 "Games Ending"     – The Stanley Parable Wiki.

 "The Stanley Parable Ending / Minecraft Ending / Easter Egg"  – RabidRetrospectGames on YouTube, October 17, 2013

 "The Talos Principle - Easter Egg: Minecraft Block Hallucination Room"  – Tengu Drop on YouTube, December 15, 2014

 "Top Notch"     – Official TF2 Wiki.

 "I love Team Fortress 2"  – Notch, November 26, 2011, Tumblr

 "Notch's Mine"     – Torchlight Wiki.

 "(Torchlight 2) The Secret Minecraft Easter Egg - World's First!?"  – Bwana on YouTube, September 21, 2012

 "Shop/Eyes"     – Transformice Wiki.

 "Shop/Mouth"     – Transformice Wiki.

 "Shop/Fur"     – Transformice Wiki.

 "Ludris"     – Dandadan Wiki.

 "Honey Nut Cheerios TV Spot, 'Game On'"     – iSpot.

 "Honey Nut Cheerios TV Spot, 'Fuel the Fun'"     – iSpot.

 "Cheerios Commercial"  – The Weirds on YouTube, December 20, 2018

 "Cheerios 2018 (Game On) Commerical"  – TrevorGames5508 on YouTube, March 29, 2021

 "Final Deployment 4: Queen Battle Walkthrough | adult swim"  – Adult Swim on YouTube, July 3, 2018

 "Marvel's Agents of SHIELD - Episode 5 - Minecraft Reference"  – LightXEthan on YouTube, October 23, 2013

 "MAD - Thunder Lolcats"  – wrightri on YouTube, September 27, 2011

 "Mad - Criminal Minecraft HD"  – Jeff "Jezza" Wenz on YouTube, October 18, 2011

 "Minecraft World"     – Ready Player One Wiki.

 "Minecraft - Robot Chicken - Adult Swim"  – Adult Swim on YouTube, November 6, 2016

 "More Money Than God - Robot Chicken"  – AngelCam7 on YouTube, April 17, 2016

 "The Simpsons Minecraft Intro (Couch Gag)"  – shillingplays on YouTube, April 7, 2014

 "Informative Murder Porn"     – South Park.

 "CHICKEN JOCKEY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! @AMinecraftMovie #FallonTonight"  – @FallonTonight  on X (formerly Twitter), April 9, 2025

 "THE WALKING DECEASED Trailer (The Walking Dead Spoof Movie - Movie HD)"  – ONE Media Coverage on YouTube, February 25, 2015

 "ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP (Pre-Order!)"   (Archive)  – Archie Comics.

 "Get Your Game On with ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP!"     by Chris C  – Archie Comics, March 6, 2025.

 "The gang goes gaming in ARCHIE & FRIENDS: LEVEL UP!"     by Jesse Post  – Archie Comics, April 2, 2025.

 "Chapter 24"     – Call of the Night Wiki.

 "The Huge Book of Graphic Novels for Minecrafters- Three Unofficial Adventures by Cara J Stevens"     – Macy's.

 "Issue 5"     – Invader ZIM Wiki.

 "In this week's issue of the Swedish Donald Duck magazine (and in the coming three) I give programming tips as a Disney character ;) #Disney #minecraft" – @jebkhaile on Instagram, April 12, 2016

 "Superior Spider-Man (2013) #16"     – Marvel.

 Carlie Cooper wearing a Minecraft shirt (Superior Spider-Man issue #16) – Reddit, u/The_Italian_fish, March 28, 2021

 "My Middle Name Is Minecraft: (an Unofficial Minecraft Book)"     – Amazon.

 "Underdog - Eve Music Video"  – Eve on YouTube, November 28, 2025

 "Guys pls watch underdog pls pls pls we worked hard on it 😭#art #animation #minecraft"  – OFF SCRIPT on YouTube, December 21, 2025

 "Tenacious D - Video Games"  – Tenacious D on YouTube, May 11, 2023

 "Rewind YouTube Style 2012"  – YouTube on YouTube, December 17, 2012

 Saw this in the 'Rewind Youtube Style 2012' video – Reddit, u/gintail

 "YouTube Rewind: Turn Down for 2014"  – YouTube on YouTube, December 9, 2014

 "THE GAME AWARDS 2023: Official 4K Livestream (Monster Hunter, Marvel's Blade, Light No Fire)"  – thegameawards on YouTube, December 7, 2023

 "Gonzo and Camilla the Chicken Presents the Award for Best Debut Indie at The Game Awards 2023"  – thegameawads on YouTube, December 7, 2023

 "THE GAME AWARDS 2025: Official 4K60FPS Livestream"  – thegameawards on YouTube, December 11, 2025

 "Miss Piggy and Rowlf (Muppets) - "The Game Awards Will Never Let You Down" | Performance TGA 2025"  – SpottinGames on YouTube, December 18, 2025

 "Sorry for the lack of posting. I accidentally deleted Minecrap and it took all day to figure out how to get it to work again. Fortunately the prank caller helped me get it back and now we are playing together. If anyone else wants to play I'm putting the details of our server below:"     by smartgeniusnewadmin  – Welcome to holidaygirl1225's game secrets, glitches, and theories blog!.

 "UNDERTALE 10th Anniversary Stream - Day 1"  – Fangamer on YouTube, September 21, 2025

Navigation