For the updated version, see Minecraft: Guide to Creative (Updated).

Minecraft: Guide to Creative

Author(s)

Craig Jelley
Stephanie Milton
Marsh Davies
Owen Jones

Language

English

Genre(s)

Guidebook

Set in

Minecraft

Release date

May 30, 2017

{
    "title": "Minecraft: Guide to Creative",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Craig Jelley article, displayed as Craig Jelley)\n* (link to Stephanie Milton article, displayed as Stephanie Milton)\n* (link to Marsh Davies article, displayed as Marsh Davies)\n* (link to Owen Jones article, displayed as Owen Jones)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Guidebook",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 30, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Guide to Creative is a guide that contains various building tips, tutorials, and images for inspiration.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Contents
3 Gallery

3.1 Covers
3.2 Photographs

4 Navigation

Synopsis
“The world of Minecraft is so varied and limitless that incredible creations can often be daunting to think about, never mind to build.
The official Minecraft:Guide to Creative will teach you all you need to know to create builds more impressive than you could've dreamed of.

With insider info and tips from the experts at Mojang, this is the definitive guide to creation in Minecraft. „
Contents
There are two types of pages within the book, tutorials and community builds.

Title

Page(s)

Description

Introduction

5

An introduction to the book, written by Owen Jones.

Before You Begin

8-9

Advantages of using creative mode and beginner building tips.

Using the Land

10-15

A description of all the biomes (that were in-game at the time of release) and natural features such as structures, rivers, and mountains.

Aesthetics

16-23

Various tips and demonstrations for color palettes, adding depth to flat walls and roofs, different aesthetic themes, and tips for "block hacks."

Structure

24-35

Guides to different shapes of buildings, how to build framework, various architectural designs, and 10 different ways to link your builds city-style.

Functional Decor

38-41

Tips on how to make decorations that are also functional, such as light fixtures and utility blocks.

Aesthetic Decor

42-55

Unique ways to build windows, walls, and floors that are far from basic; how to decoratively use paintings, item frames, and armor stands; how to make various banner designs, as well as how to use them; and ways to build furniture pieces using vanilla blocks.

Outdoor Spaces

56-59

Multiple ways to fill up outside areas, including water features, fences, flowers, hedges, and trees, with inspiration for custom trees. There's also some inspiration for outdoor buildings like meeting points, bridges, communal spaces, arches, and hedge mazes.

Remote Outpost

62-67

The schematics, a block pallete, and interior images of the build.

Lighting System

68-71

A tutorial on how to make a light system using redstone, followed by variations using more advanced redstone.

Exotic Villa

72-77

The schematics, color pallete, and interior and exterior images of the build.

Vertical Transport System

78-81

How to build a railway that uses a 5×5 space and goes vertically as tall as you build it, followed by varitions of it.

Ocean Observatory

82-97

Schematics, block palette, and interior/exterior images of the build.

Steampunk Airship

88-93

The schematics, block palette, and interior and exterior images of the build.

Final Words

94-95

A note from Owen Jones and the Mojang Team congratulating the reader for finishing the book.

Stay in the Know!

96

A list of 8 other Minecraft books and the publishers website.

Gallery
Covers






Photographs






Navigation