Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles

Author(s)

Nick Eliopulos

Audio read by

Keylor Leigh

Illustrator(s)

Luke Flowers (#1-3)
Alan Batson (#4)
Chris Hill (#5 and 6)

Country

United States

Language

English

Genre(s)

Children's fiction

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Random House Children's Books

Release date

March 26, 2019 – January 5, 2021

Media type

Print, Digital

Followed by

Minecraft: Stonesword Saga

{
    "title": "''Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles''",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Nick Eliopulos article, displayed as Nick Eliopulos)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Keylor Leigh article, displayed as Keylor Leigh)",
            "label": "Audio read by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Luke Flowers article, displayed as Luke Flowers) (#1-3)\n* (link to Alan Batson article, displayed as Alan Batson) (#4)\n* (link to Chris Hill article, displayed as Chris Hill) (#5 and 6)",
            "label": "Illustrator(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:United States article, displayed as United States)",
            "label": "Country"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Children's fiction",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Penguin Random House#Random House Children's Books article, displayed as Random House Children's Books)",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "March 26, 2019 – January 5, 2021",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Print, Digital",
            "label": "Media type"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: Stonesword Saga article, displayed as Minecraft: Stonesword Saga)''",
            "label": "Followed by"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Luke Flowers, Alan Batson, and Chris Hill.

Contents

1 Woodsword Chronicles books
2 Quotes
3 Gallery

3.1 Logos
3.2 Covers

3.2.1 Alternate covers

3.3 Promotional images

4 References
5 Navigation

Woodsword Chronicles books

#

Title

Published

Pages

Plot Synopsis

1

Into the Game!

March 26, 2019

144

Five young Minecraft players in the real world find themselves transported inside the game they love. But now it's not a game—and they will have to use everything they know to explore, build, and survive!

2

Night of the Bats!

When zombie hordes attack them in the game, and bats invade their school in the real world, Ash, Morgan, and their friends realize that it's going to take all their talents to get to the bottom of these monstrous migrations.

3

Deep Dive!

September 3, 2019

As Ash, Morgan, and three of their fellow Minecraft players, who can actually enter the game, take a deep dive into the Aquatic biome, they find a world filled with beauty and wonder. A treasure map promises adventure and the opportunity to explore—but it could also be a trap set by the mysterious Evoker King. With air running low, will they survive to find out?

4

Ghast in the Machine!

January 7, 2020

Jodi, Ash, Morgan and their fellow Minecraft players go out into the real world to find clues to the identity of the mysterious and sinister Evoker King. Not only do they need to find out who—or what—he is, but they need to know if it's really possible for him to escape the game! Because if he can, that could spell big trouble both in the game and out!

5

Dungeon Crawl!

July 7, 2020

When Po, Morgan, and three of their fellow Minecraft players track the Evoker King to his home in the heart of a perilous dungeon, they have to gear up for an epic fantasy quest filled with danger, dragons, and hostile mobs. Meanwhile, in the real world, the school play seems to be full of its own traps and troubles. Are Po and his friends doomed in both worlds?!

6

Last Block Standing!

January 5, 2021

As the world of Minecraft falls under the Evoker King’s control, Morgan, Ash, and their friends get ready for the final showdown. But with their enemy now in possession of the most powerful building block in Minecraft, do they really stand a chance of defeating him? And meanwhile, in the real world, the kids deal with the devastating news that Ash and her family may be moving away! Will both worlds come to an end, or is this just a new beginning?

Quotes
“So I’m a writer living in New York. I actually moved from Florida to New York to work in children’s publishing as an editor, and I did that for a good twelve or thirteen years before transitioning to writing full time. I’ve got a lot of different projects in addition to the Minecraft books – I’m also writing a fantasy series, which I’m co-writing with my best friend, and I’m the writer and narrative designer for a small video game studio based in Seattle. I’m a big gamer as well as a big reader and writer, so the Minecraft gig is a super-exciting one for me!„ — Nick Eliopulos, author of Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
Gallery
Logos



			Logo for Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles


Covers



			Cover for Into the Game!



			Cover for Night of the Bats!



			Cover for Deep Dive!



			Cover for Ghast in the Machine!



			Cover for Dungeon Crawl!



			Cover for Last Block Standing!


Alternate covers



			Alternate cover for Into the Game!



			Alternate cover for Night of the Bats!



			Alternate cover for Deep Dive!



			Alternate cover for Ghast in the Machine!



			Alternate cover for Dungeon Crawl!



			Alternate cover for Last Block Standing!


Promotional images






References

 Deep Dive! (Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles #3) by Nick Eliopulos; Illustrated by Luke Flowers

 Ghast in the Machine! (Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles #4) by Nick Eliopulos; Illustrated by Alan Batson

 Dungeon Crawl! (Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles #5) by Nick Eliopulos

 Last Block Standing! (Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles #6) by Nick Eliopulos

 "New Books: Woodsword Chronicles"     – Minecraft.net, May 15, 2019.

Navigation