This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.





This article does not cite enough sources. 
You can help by adding citations to reliable sources.Instructions: Additional references for Mojang employee statements in English.

Vu Bui giving a speech at a Minecraft Creator Summit.
Minecraft Creator Summits were annual events hosted by Mojang Studios to bring together Minecraft content creators. These summits were held in Stockholm and lasted up to three days. They included activities such as games, dinners, and parties at Mojang Studios' offices, as well as conferences. Minecraft Creator Summits served as a platform for content creators to engage directly with Mojang employees and gain exclusive insights of upcoming content. They took place from 2017 to 2019.
Starting in 2021, they were replaced by Minecraft Virtual Creator Summits and a dedicated content creator Discord server managed by Mojang Studios. Although content creators remain in touch with Mojang through the dedicated Discord server, the Minecraft Virtual Creator Summit 2022 marked the last publicly known full Minecraft Creator Summit.

Contents

1 Minecraft Creator Summit 2017

1.1 Attendees
1.2 Mojang employee statements
1.3 Activities

1.3.1 August 20
1.3.2 August 21
1.3.3 August 22
1.3.4 August 23

2 Minecraft Creator Summit 2018

2.1 Attendees
2.2 Mojang employee statements
2.3 Activities

2.3.1 May 29
2.3.2 May 30
2.3.3 May 31
2.3.4 June 1

3 Minecraft Creator Summit 2019

3.1 Attendees
3.2 Mojang employee statements
3.3 Activities

4 Minecraft Creator Summit 2021
5 Minecraft Creator Summit 2022
6 Gallery
7 Notes
8 References
9 External links
10 Navigation

Minecraft Creator Summit 2017
The Minecraft Creator Summit 2017 was the first Minecraft Creator Summit organized. It was held from August 20 to August 23.

Attendees



This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it.

AntVenom
Aurélien Sama
Aureylian
BigB
direwolf20
Docm77
Frigiel
Grian
Iskall85
Logdotzip
Mentally
MinOtaku
OMGcraft
sevadus
STAMSITE
Thaek
Thinknoodles
TrueTriz
Mojang employee statements
Jeb announced that Java Edition 1.13 would be mainly technical.
The way maps are saved would be improved.
The limitations caused by the way IDs work would be addressed (teasing the Flattening).
It was stated that the only reason keeping Mojang from adding more stairs and slabs was the ID system.
It was announced that combat would be revamped again.
However, there are no plans to go back to the pre-Combat Update system.
It was stated that there could eventually be a GUI update in both Bedrock Edition and Java Edition.
Vu Bui gave a presentation on the MINECON's history and explained why it would be replaced by MINECON Earth.
He confirmed that there would be official stream parties around the world.
Vu Bui stated that structures are not meant to be the prettiest so that players can improve them or build their own structures.
ProfMobius announced that the world generation and structure generation would eventually be revamped.
It was stated that this would only be a technical change and that the terrain won't be affected.
The world generation would be more efficient and more customizable.
It was stated that ProfMobius would focus on improving the world generation and that these changes are not aimed for any update.
Jappa stated that the new textures are not aimed to be part of the Update Aquatic but will release when they will be done.
Vu Bui stated that Microsoft does not exert creative control over Minecraft but do give advice and guidance.
It was confirmed that the differences in how redstone functions between Bedrock Edition and Java Edition were intentional.
It was confirmed that the official modding API would be exclusive to Bedrock Edition and that no modding API is planned for Java Edition as third-party modding APIs are good enough.
Activities
August 20
On August 20, content creators were welcomed at the airport where they were then driven to the Hobbo Hotel. They could then take a room tour and discover the different gifts they received, including:

A Creator Summit 2017 tote bag.
A Creator Summit 2017 water bottle.
A Creator Summit 2017 sticker.
Various Swedish meals.
They were then invited to a party at the Mojang Studios office at 7pm.

August 21
On August 21, after taking their breakfast at the Hobbo Hotel, content creators were invited to a presentation and a lunch from 10am to 1:30pm.
From 1:30pm to 5pm, content creators were playing the "Mojang City Challenge". Content creators were in teams and had to complete different missions, most of them requiring getting around Stockholm.
At 8pm, content creators were invited to a "different but delicious dinner" with some Mojang Studios employees at Sjätte Tunnan, a restaurant serving medieval dishes.

August 22
On August 22, after taking their breakfast at the Hobbo Hotel, at 8am, content creators were invited to a boat trip to the Stockholm archipelago with some Mojang Studios employees. At 10am, they had lunch and attended a presentation at Badholmen, a restaurant located on one of the islands of the archipelago.
At 3pm, content creators took part in a boat race.
At 7:30pm, after some free time, content creators were invited to a last dinner with some Mojang Studios employees.

August 23
Nothing happened on August 23 other than the breakfast and the check out at the Hobbo Hotel.

Minecraft Creator Summit 2018
The Minecraft Creator Summit 2018 was held from May 29 to June 1.

Attendees



This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it.

AntVenom
Aubrey Norris
Aurélien Sama
Aureylian
Aypierre
ChrisWhippit
Docm77
FalseSymmetry
figgehn
FuzeIII
Grian
InTheLittleWood
Logdotzip
Manucraft
OMGcraft
SoftisFFS
the_jnx
The One Lock 永樂
Ufosxm
Mojang employee statements
Mojang employees confirmed that the 3 next updates were already planned (Java Edition 1.14, Java Edition 1.15 and Java Edition 1.16).
While they were not revealed, it was announced that one would be technical and another involve combat (the latter teasing the Combat Tests).
Mojang announced that they had access to some YouTube data.
The number of Minecraft videos viewed per day is growing.
The record is in January 2018, with 7.8 billion views a day and 42% of YouTube gaming video views being Minecraft videos.
The largest communities being the Brazilian community and the Chinese community.
Mojang promoted Minecraft: Chinese Edition.
Jeb announced that a modding API for Minecraft: Chinese Edition was in the works, and that it could end up being ported for the Java Edition.
Jeb stated that every event in a world should be the consequences of the player's actions. The only exception being thunderstorms (prior to the addition of lightning rods).
The combat system introduced in Combat Update was designed to work on touching screens.
A Java Edition developer stated that there could eventually be a GUI update in both Bedrock Edition and Java Edition. This statement was already made during the previous Creator Summit.
The new GUI would be more modular and similar in both editions.
Jeb stated that the Minecraft lore should be up to the player's interpretation.
More stairs and slabs are planned for the upcoming update (Village & Pillage). However, only rock blocks are concerned - it's been confirmed that there wouldn't be stairs and slabs for dirt and concrete.
Activities
May 29
On August 20, content creators could take a room tour at the Downtown Camper hotel and discover the different gifts they received, including:

A Creator Summit 2018 tote bag.
A Funko figurine of a creeper.
A Funko figurine of Alex in an enchanted armor.
A Minecon Earth blue sheep pillow.
A Creator Summit 2018 water bottle.
A Creator Summit 2018 sticker.
Various Swedish meals.
Later in the eveningn, they were invited to lunch in the hotel with some Mojang and Microsoft employees.

May 30
On May 30, after gathering in the hotel's meeting room, content creators and several Mojang and Microsoft employees were transported to Rosendals Trädgård. They attended a conference given by Jens Bergensten and Vu Bui among others in one of the greenhouses of the garden.
After the conference, they had lunch. Following the meal, the group walked to Gröna Lund, where they were divided into teams to complete challenges, including various fairground games.
After taking a ferry, the group went to an icebar, a bar made entirely of ice, before going to Trädgården, an outdoor club in Stockholm.

May 31
On May 31, the group went to the Vaxholm Fortress. After visiting it, the group was divided into teams and had to complete challenges inspired by Fort Boyard in the castle.
Content creators and Mojang employees then embarked on speedboat tours through the archipelago.
They were later invited to a party at the newly inaugurated Mojang Studios offices.

June 1
Nothing happened on June 1 other than the breakfast and the check out at the Downtown Camper Hotel.

Minecraft Creator Summit 2019
Unlike previous years, it was stated that this Creator Summit would focus on the Minecraft franchise (particularly Minecraft Earth, Minecraft Dungeons and Minecraft: The Movie) and content creation, as the next Minecraft update (Buzzy Bees) would be about optimization rather than features.

Attendees
This year, in addition to content creators on YouTube and Twitch, content creators on the Marketplace were invited. There were between 150 and 200 attendees.

Mojang employee statements
Some information about Minecraft: The Movie were given to attendees. Was confirmed to be live-action and set to release in 2022.
Jeb and most Mojang employees stated that they are excited for Hytale.
The least favorite update for many developers was Village & Pillage due to its lack of optimization.
Jeb's favorite update was the World of Color Update.
ProfMobius's favorite update was the upcoming world generation revamp that he already teased during the Creator Summit 2018 and the village generation overhaul.
Regarding adding some of OptiFine's features, such as shaders, to Minecraft, Dinnerbone stated that there is no reason to do what a mod does well enough.
When asked about a "Cave Update", ProfMobius confirmed that they thought about it and that it would involve 3D biomes.
It was confirmed that parity between Java Edition and Bedrock Edition was their goal, although there will always be differences.
It was confirmed that Minecraft Earth would be free-to-play and linked to the player's Bedrock Edition profile. Furthermore, the closed-beta was announced for the end of the season.
Activities



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Minecraft Creator Summit 2021



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Minecraft Creator Summit 2022



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Gallery



			Minecraft Creator Summit 2017 logo



			Minecraft Creator Summit 2018 logo



			Minecraft Creator Summit 2019 logo


			Minecraft Virtual Creator Summit 2021 logo
			Minecraft Virtual Creator Summit 2021 logo



			Minecraft Virtual Creator Summit 2022 logo


























Notes

 Although Iskall85 was not invited by Mojang, Docm77 invited him to some of the activities.

References

 "The past two days was virtual Minecraft Creator Summit. Lots of good news and meeting nice people, new and old friends. Thank you @Mojang for putting this together this year. Had a great time. Also, Goats should be rideable in Minecraft."  – @docm77  on X (formerly Twitter), May 20, 2021

 "THANK YOU @Minecraft !!!Box contents:- Official Mineceaft Skeleton Mug- Official 2022 SUMMIT Sticker & Magnet- Official 2022 Summit Hat- Official 2022 Summit FROG SOCKS!- An amazing Thank you from Mincraft#MinecraftCreatorSummit2022 #Minecraft #Frogs #JaneyLaney"  – @_JaneyLaney  on X (formerly Twitter), June 15, 2021

 "Visiting Mojang HQ in Stockholm - Minecraft Creators Summit 2017 - Day 1"  – docm77 on YouTube, August 24, 2017

 "Infos 1.13 et autres - Visite chez Mojang"  – Aurelien_Sama on YouTube, August 24, 2017

 "GOING TO SWEDEN!! | Minecraft Creator Summit #1"  – Pink on YouTube, August 3, 2018

 "JE VISITE LES STUDIOS MOJANG - Minecraft Creator Summit - Stockholm"  – Aymeric Pierre (Les Explorateurs) on YouTube, June 3, 2018

 "Infos de l'Event Mojang, Prochaines Update, etc"  – Aurelien_Sama on YouTube, June 3, 2018

 "Minecraft Creator Summit 2018 with Docm77"  – Docm77 on YouTube, June 3, 2018

 "Je visite Minecraft IRL - Mojang - Minecraft Creator Summit 2019"  – Aypierre on YouTube, May 29, 2019

 "Les Réponses de Mojang à Vos Questions"  – Aurelien_Sama on YouTube, May 27, 2019

External links
Photos of the Minecraft Creator Summit 2017 – katlastudios.com
Photos of the Minecraft Creator Summit 2018 – katlastudios.com
Navigation