Contents

1 Chapter 33: Jack
2 Chapter 34: Cel
3 Chapter 35: Belinda
4 Chapter 36: Belinda
5 Chapter 37: Belinda
6 Chapter 38: Belinda
7 After…

Chapter 33: Jack
The banquet is held in a small dining room, complete with flowers along the wall, vines along the ceiling, and note blocks positioned where allays collide with them, alongside jukeboxes playing music. A long dark wood table dominated the center of the room, with the shulker box adorned in its center. Jack’s parents mingled with Belinda’s mom and Cel’s parents as Jack asks Belinda as to where Mara’s parents are. Belinda says she doesn’t know, but says that maybe Mara’s parents think they would be too good for banquets, or they noticed that Mara snuck out and are now mad at her, with Jack noticing that Mara didn’t even show up to the banquet. Belinda then says that Cel’s parents are only here to get some food before they leave, wondering as to how herself and Jack would get away from their parents. Hero Crowe overhears this and asks why they would do so, and Belinda says that she and Jack wanted to prepare for the test. Hero Crowe then turns off the music, sets a dragon head atop a note blocks, and taps the note block, making the dragon head roar as if the Ender Dragon were actually there. He then announces that Jack, Belinda, and Mara will embark on their final exam, reminding them that one of them will be the victor and claim the shulker box adorned at the center of the table. As Hero Crowe wishes Jack and Belinda good luck, Cel’s parents hurry out of the room, with her father having his hand over his mouth, and her mother having her hand pressed over her stomach, and Jack and Belinda realize that Hero Crowe intentionally gave them pufferfish so they could go get Cel and have her participate in the final exam. Belinda, her mother, and Lucy engage in a group hug as Jack talks with his father about strategies to win; his father says to Jack that he should befriend Belinda until her guard is down, and then win it from under her. Jack nods in approval, but deep in his mind, he feels lost. With emotions swelling, he decides to focus with Belinda on saving Cel before deciding if he would do his best to win or not.

Chapter 34: Cel
Cel paces around the guest cottage as her dreams of being Hero Crowe’s apprentice were all but shattered. Someone then knocks on the door, and Cel opens it to reveal Belinda and Jack, much to her shock. They explain that Hero Crowe intentionally poisoned her parents to buy time to allow her to participate in the final exam. Jack sets up some blankets on the bed as a decoy for Cel’s parents in case they come back, and the three start heading back to the woodland mansion, barely avoiding an enderman. Along the way, they notice the hooded figure placing items in a shulker box, and then getting into a minecart, and they decide to stop them. Cel stands on the rails and spreads her arms to stop the figure from leaving, and it spins around to run away, only to collide with Jack and Belinda. The collision knocks the blanket off the figure that it used as a makeshift cloak, revealing it to be Mara.

Chapter 35: Belinda
Belinda is shocked that Mara would steal stuff from everyone else, and Cel says for Mara to explain herself. Mara says that she didn’t want to point out Richton on the map because it basically no longer exists because of numerous illager raids, adding that she was stealing stuff to bring back to Richton because nobody from other towns would help the people of Richton. Belinda, Jack, and Cel all say that they won’t stop her, with Belinda adding that they wanted to be friends with Mara, but she had pushed them away. Mara believes that the others would’ve made fun of her, but Cel says that they wouldn’t. Jack concurs, adding that they would’ve helped her if she had given them a chance. Mara continues her explanation, saying that when she was invited to the admissions test, the others in the village gave everything they had to her, and her parents didn’t have enough supplies to make the journey. Cel then asks Mara as to why she stole from them, and Mara says that it was clear that the others were better than her and that she never would’ve won, so she would sneak out and take whatever she needed back to Richton to get the town back on its feet. Mara then asks the others as to what their reason is for being with Hero Crowe. Jack says he wants to prove himself to his parents, Cel says that she wants to take charge of her life, and Belinda says that she is here because her father died, saying that it is all her fault.
The others are shocked at this revelation, but Belinda continues, saying that she and her father would mine together, and she would dream of finding diamonds. One day, she proceeded to mine diamonds on her own to craft a diamond pickaxe for his birthday, but didn’t notice the sun go down. Belinda tried to run home as she was being chased by a giant spider; her father found her and told her to run as he went after the spider, but he died as a result, hence Belinda’s lifelong fear of spiders. Belinda then states that she wanted to be brave that day, but her father ended up being the brave one, reiterating that she is here in memory of her father because she needs to prove that she will be strong and never run from danger again. Cel asks Belinda if that is why she froze in front of the spider the first night, and Belinda affirms her suspicion, adding that she’ll never forgive herself if she can’t get past killing a spider. Jack says to Belinda that her father did what she could to protect her, and that he loves her, adding that she didn’t need the school to prove she was brave, worthy, of a hero because she is already all of these things. Mara then apologizes to the others for stealing their items, and also apologizes to Jack for sealing him in the cave with the slimes. She adds that she didn’t want to take anything from anyone, but she wanted to help her town in any way she could, and that if she became Hero Crowe’s apprentice, she could learn how to fight back and save her village from another raid. Belinda then says that they will finish the exam together, and that afterward, she, Jack, and Cel will help Mara save her town.

Chapter 36: Belinda
Belinda and Cel meet Hero Crowe at the landing on the second floor of the woodland base alongside Jack and Mara. Hero Crowe is glad that Cel is here and that he was able to help her be here. He then says for everyone to clear the third floor of the woodland mansion in order to have a chance to win and become his apprentice. Before they start, Jack gives Belinda and Cel their missing items to complete a full set of iron armor, and Mara once again apologizes for stealing iron from Belinda. Everyone puts on their armor and heads up the stairs to the third floor. As they do, Mara hands Cel back the enchanted golden apple that she had stolen, but Cel says for her to hold onto it for someone else to use if needed. Upon making it to the floor, a vindicator approaches them, but Mara distracts it while Cel kills it with ease. A creeper then appears, which Jack kills with relative ease. Belinda then kills another vindicator as the group start clearing out rooms one by one, killing any hostile mob they find before they come across an evoker, zombies, skeletons, and a creeper coming at them in two directions. After discussing it amongst themselves, Jack will go after the zombies. Mara will go after the skeletons, and Cel and Belinda will go after the evoker, keeping an eye on the creeper.

Chapter 37: Belinda
Belinda and Cel rush into the room where the evoker is, going after it while also killing off a stray vindicator. Jack and Mara show up soon to assist after dealing with the other hostile mobs as Cel gets attacked by the vexes that spawn. Jack mentions that vexes die off on their own after a bit, so the group retreats for a bit in a library and eat cooked porkchops to heal. After healing, they go after the evoker again, but the creeper from earlier gets caught up in the action and prepares to explode. Fortunately, the group get away just before it explodes, killing off the evoker, as well as some zombies. Cel believes the floor is cleared, but a spider notices them from a hole in the wall.

Chapter 38: Belinda
Belinda feels her heart slow and a cold sweat at each of her pores as multiple spiders come out from a hole in the wall. Jack notices a spawner in the middle of the room behind the wall, believing that destroying it will stop more spiders from spawning. As Jack, Mara, and Cel swap between going after the spiders, Belinda breaks down and apologizes for not being brave enough. As the others give her a pep talk, Belinda eventually decides to go after the spawner, making the others clear a path for her to do so to avoid attacking a spider. She soon makes it into the room, which is filled with cobwebs and spiders. Belinda uses his father’s iron pickaxe to mine away at the spawner, doing so even when a spider spawns on top of it; she continues to mine the spawner, inadvertently attacking the spider, which makes her overcome her fear. Once the remaining spiders are killed, Belinda finally destroys the spider spawner. Hero Crowe then congratulates everyone, as they all passed the final test and cleared the woodland mansion.

After…
Belinda, Cel, Jack, and Mara head down the staircase side by side as the parents of Belinda, Cel, and Jack rush over to them and envelope them in hugs. Mara stays off to the side, but she engages in Belinda’s family hug. Each of the parents congratulates them for making it and being brave, with Cel saying again to her parents that she will no longer be a farmer, but an adventurer instead. Mara attempts to give Hero Crowe a totem of undying, claiming that she took it as a bad habit, but Hero Crowe insists that she keep it, saying that her cleverness won it. As the group head over to the shulker box, Belinda asks Hero Crowe if he was the one that was invisible during the admissions test and in the cave with the slimes. He answers in the affirmative, adding that he always cares about others. This makes Jack’s mom perplexed, and Hero Crowe explains that she misunderstood her situation, saying that he distracted the enderman long enough for her to build a cobblestone shelter, and when he was going to explain the situation to her, she was already long gone. Hero Crowe also says that he wouldn’t let Cel drown, referring to when she was nearly attacked by a drowned, nor would he ignore the others that attempted to cross the lake, as he fired arrows at the drowned attacking them. After the group talk amongst each other some more, Hero Crowe says that he has chosen a winner, and after some pondering, he says that everyone has passed the test and have become his apprentices. He further explains that the test was of character, and he chose them because they were phenomenal on their own and were able to learn from one another and accomplish what they could together. The group get their belongings from the respective shulker boxes, and after getting permission from Hero Crowe, they decide to head to Richton to fix it up. The group and Hero Crowe then gather in a circle with their hands on top of each other, cheering as they raise their hands and prepare to tackle whatever the Overworld will throw their way.