Contents

1 Chapter 31
2 Chapter 32
3 Notes from EnderMirr
4 Chapter 33
5 Chapter 34
6 Chapter 35
7 Chapter 36
8 Chapter 37
9 Notes from EnderMirr

Chapter 31
Nzinga stands in the middle of the screen, feeling alone and lost, and begins to cry as Obsidian tries to comfort her. Thoughts swirl in her head about not belonging wherever she lives, so she turns off the computer for a moment and paces around the basement to think. Eventually, Nzinga turns back on the computer, logs back into Minecraft, joins the Honeysuckle Dreams server, and starts tearing down the apartment complex she was building block by block, saying to herself that she has done her crying and to get it over with. Thoughts again swirl in Nzinga’s head as the idea of Honeysuckle Strret being her forever home shatters, and the friendships and memories she had made turned to dust. She considers destroying the whole project, but comes to the realization that the server doesn’t belong to her, and she doesn’t get what to decide to destroy for Jannah and Mir, nor does she get to decide what to build without them. Nzinga then logs out of the server and rejoins The Sanctuary, checking on Mocha and Latte before deciding to wing it and drink the ominous bottle, feeling it would give her a shortcut to get more gifts and supplies. Nzinga heads over to Mir’s village to start the raid, going after the pillagers in the first and second waves while keeping Mocha and Latte away in a house as to not get distracted. As the third wave starts, Nzinga attacks a ravager despite it trampling over the pumpkins and carrots that Mir had planted, and despite Ms. Bashiarah and Ms. Berta coming downstairs to work on posters for the City Council meeting, Nzinga greets them as to not be rude, and then gets back to taking out the raid, eventually killing the ravager and the witch to end it. Nzinga then reluctantly shows Ms. Bashirah and Ms. Berta how she has the villagers leave their homes once the raid is over.
Ms. Bashirah comments that she was wrong about Minecraft, noting that there is a lesson in the game: everyone is responsible for the village in some way. Nzinga asks as to how everyone would be responsible if they just move away, and Ms. Berta asks her to clarify what she means. Nzinga asks Ms. Berta about her sons moving away, noting that her own parents moved, and that Ms. Bashirah might move away as well. Ms. Bashirah proclaims that she never said that, and Nzinga brings up that Jannah said that people are trying to get her to sell her house. Ms. Bashirah then says that she is not moving unless they physically drag her out, adding that the street belongs to all of them, and it stays in them when they move away. Ms. Berts concurs, adding that although her sons don’t visit a lot, they still return here when life gets rough. Nzinga feels confused about how people would care more about where they live previously over any other neighborhood, and Ms. Bashirah says that wherever people go, they put down roots, and they should care and give back to their communities new and old. Ms. Berts concurs, saying that her parents came up here from North Carolina looking forward to the future, and Ms. Bashirah says that her family came from South Carolina, noting that Philadelphia was a haven back in her day, as people like her were escaping the Jim Crow laws of the South, and that Honeysuckle Street was their sanctuary. Nzinga’s jaw drops as she mentions the word, and then gets a strong urge to show them what she is working on, logging out of The Sanctuary and logging back into Honeysuckle Dreams. At first, Ms. Bashirah and Ms. Berta are amazed at what she has worked on so far, but when they come across the remnants of the apartment complex that was being worked on, Ms. Berta asks if the area is used for sitting and sunbathing. Nzinga sheepishly admits that it isn’t and stammers on about the apartment that the developers spoke about. Ms. Berta and Ms. Bashirah have worries looks in their eyes as Nzinga says that she knows better now, but Ms. Berta feels like the developers are getting rid of them. Ms. Bashirah mumbles to her about doing the posters later, and they walk back up the steps slowly. As Nzinga thinks back to what Jannah said about not being able to dream about a street if she can’t stay there, she closes the game, feeling like there is nothing to dream about.

Chapter 32
Just then, Mir is seen heading down the stairs, and Nzinga heads over to the couch to let him know the computer is all his. She asks him if he is feeling OK, and Mir nods silently. Nzinga then asks him if he forgives her for getting on Honeysuckle Dreams when he told her not to, and Mir once again nods, but then asks her if she forgives him. Nzinga asks if it was about the tent that was damaged earlier with his meltdown, and Mir balls up his fists. Nzinga pulls him into a hug and says that she forgives him, and Mir then sits down and prepares to play Minecraft, and Nzinga says that she can jump in for help if needed. Mir shakes his head silently, wanting to do it on his own, so she sits down and watches him.

Notes from EnderMirr
Mir states that he couldn’t control the world of the last episode, adding that he couldn’t even control how he was feeling or what he was doing, and that he can get scared. He does mention, however, that there are things he can control, such as the tools he brings with him to enter the worlds he is a part of. Mir mentions that he watched some videos on tips for navigating the deep dark and the ancient city, and then goes into Creative mode on The Sanctuary, filling his inventory with stacks of wool blocks. Going back into Survival mode, Mir makes his bridges out of wool blocks to avoid triggering the sculk sensors, and soon comes across a chest with an enchanted book, a soul torch, amethyst, and an enchanted diamond hoe.

Chapter 33
As Nzinga sits up on the couch, her mind goes back and forth with questions, wondering how they can control noise by fighting back against it, wondering if there is a way to force the City Council to hear them out. Nzinga is not sure on how to do it, but wants to do it, and starts pacing around the basement as she thinks of what to do. Although Mir leaves the basement at some point while Nzinga continues to pace, she decides not to log back onto the computer just yet, knowing that she has to do what she is building the right way. That evening, Nzinga and Mir’s parents host a video call, where they are already aware about Mir’s meltdown, and their mom says that they can come get them tomorrow. Nzinga says that she doesn’t want to leave just yet and wants to fight for her block, knowing that it is the responsibility for all of them to fight. Mom tries to talk her out of it, but she says that she already made up her mind, hoping that the Phantasy Philly project can be used to make a statement by showing it at the City Council meeting. Dad then asks about Mir, and Nzinga says that he can help with the project from home where he is safe, but Mir says that he isn’t going back because he wants to fight back. Nzinga asks him if he’ll be happy here, and he says that he was always happy here until they moved, adding that Honeysuckle Street was "raided" and vows to stop it. After some discussion, their mom says that they’ll take it day by day, but plan to pick up Mir if he has another meltdown, hoping he can be safe. Mir says that everything will be fine, and the video call is disconnected. Nzinga then says to Mir that it is time to fight, and Mir says that they fight good together.

Chapter 34
The next morning, Mir wakes up Nzinga and has her come down to the basement, wanting her to ask Jannah for help. Nzinga says that she won’t talk to her as she did a lot of things wrong, and Mir sheepishly tells her to just say that she is sorry. Nzinga starts the video call, and Jannah looks back at the two with a flat face. Mir then launches into a "hrrrm", much like how the villagers talk, and says that Nzinga is sorry. Nzinga says that she is and launches into her own "hrrrm". Jannah cracks a smile, but her face switches back to a flat expression. Mir then brings up a social story he read about when people get mad, knowing that it is okay to feel mad sometimes, knowing there are appropriate things people can do when they are mad so they can feel better. Jannah then says that she is not mad, but hurt, and Nzinga apologizes for hurting her, before launching into an aggressive "hrrrm" to play along. Jannah coughs as she holds back a laugh, but eventually, everyone is laughing. After some deep breaths to calm down, Nzinga says to Jannah that she needs her, but not so they would look good at a convention, and not so she can join the Crafties. Jannah says softly that she was hard on her, acknowledging that she didn’t stop being a Philadelphia girl just because she moved, and asks her as to how she would come for the Crafties every weekend. Nzinga says that perhaps her parents would feel pressured to bring her, but the plan wouldn’t make a lot of sense anyway. Jannah then brings up the Smarties, but Nzinga admits through crying that she made the whole thing up to feel normal. Mir then suggests having her come along to his autism support group for lunch within a year, and Jannah suggests talking with the Crafties, but Nzinga says that being with them isn’t a good idea anymore, adding that she and Mir called her as they have a plan to save Honeysuckle Street which involves getting back to Phantasy Philly.

Chapter 35
Jannah says that going back to Phantasy Philly would feel impossible, adding that Honeysuckle Street seems like a nightmare to her now. As Nzinga goes on about how they could use Honeysuckle Dreams to present not just a fantasy, but a protest on what is happening on the block, Jannah’s eyes widen with surprise, and then curiosity, followed by excitement, and asks Nzinga if they could set it up like a protest poster to show to hundreds of people at the City Council meeting. Jannah feels unsure on how to pull it off, and Nzinga says that it is all in here as she points to her head, leading Mir to clarify that the word she means to use is imagination, adding that the build should have more vegetation. Nzinga tries to say something, but Jannah says that Mir has a point, noting that just because they are in the city doesn’t mean that they can’t have nature, noting that nature in a city almost feels like a fantasy. Nzinga nods in approval and asks if it’s like a forest on a city block, and Jannah mentions about trees reducing the noise level.
Nzinga tries to picture it, mentioning that not all noise is bad, but Jannah brings up information about new projects being announced every week that won’t be done for years, noting that work on other street blocks can also be heard. An imaginary lightbulb then turns on in Nzinga’s head as she says that they can put trees in places to reduce noice and leave space for not just Ms. Berta for a garden, but for the other people on the street to have a place to mingle. As Mir opens Minecraft and logs onto the Honeysuckle Dreams server, Nzinga starts searching up ideas for gardens that can absorb sound. She quickly comes across a stone garden, and pictures using end stone and basalt for the build. Jannah then admits that she missed her and Nzinga hanging out, acknowledging that she felt mad because all Nzinga wanted to talk about was Phantasy Philly, and once again apologizes to her for acting rashly. Nzinga accepts the apology, thinking that Jannah didn’t want to see her, and she too apologizes. As the three get back to work, they realize that they only have six days to complete the build as the City Council meeting was set for the coming Thursday, which was a week out from Phantasy Philly.

Chapter 36
Late on a Sunday morning, Jannah is texting Nzinga about plans for today, and then arrives at the house, knocking on the door. Ms. Bashirah lightly scolds her for not calling beforehand, but Jannah said that she had to come over right away to make sure they got everything right. Nzinga and Jannah then go over the plan, knowing that they would need to talk to the neighbors for ideas on changes that would be needed for Honeysuckle Street to use in the build to present to the City Council. Jannah then asks about what would happen if no one wants to answer questions, but Nzinga promises her that they will, even though she feels nervous deep down. Jannah then asks about how Mir is doing with the Minecraft build, and Nzinga says that he has been working on it nonstop since yesterday. Satisfied, she and Jannah head out to start asking questions, and they soon come across the house of the old Mr. Melvin. Asking him if he would like to change one thing about Honeysuckle Street, he suggests that people stop knocking on his door and asking him about selling the house. Jannah and Nzinga write it down, and then proceed to the rest of the houses of the people that aren’t at church. Many perk up when asked about noise barriers, some wonder about how parking will work with an apartment complex, no one wants the apartment building at all, and some get excited when Nzinga brings up creating a garden and adding trees to reduce the noise. The cousins even catch Ms. Berta returning from church, who suggests that sunflowers be added to the garden. Upon returning to Ms. Bashirah’s house, she asks them about what they were up to. As Jannah hands her the clipboard of notes, Nzinga mentions about how they asked the neighbors for what changes they would like to see on the street. Ms. Bashirah commends them for their work, but says that it feels like a list of demands, and has them considering presenting it as a platform, meaning an organized list of demands. Nzinga says that they will share the platform alongside the model made in Minecraft, but Ms. Bashirah asks as to how they would get on the speaker list for the City Council meeting. Nzinga says that they’ll just do what it says to get signed up, but Ms. Bashirah says that it’ll be a family effort and starts filling out the form on her phone.

Chapter 37
On Monday morning, Ms. Bashirah quickly eats her breakfast, consisting of beef bacon and toast, and then starts calling the City Council offices, eventually getting to someone named Eric Hazel who handles the speaker list. He tells Ms. Bashirah that Nzinga, Samir, and Jannah are already on the list as the 27th speakers, and she asks to be transferred to his supervisor, Samantha Reilly. After talking to Ms. Reilly, Ms. Bashirah asks to be transferred to her supervisor. While she does this, Nzinga heads down to the basement to help Mir with laying out the garden for the Minecraft build, placing the sunflowers on the right side in a diamond pattern, followed by rose bushes packed densely together on the left side. Soon, knocking is heard at the door, and Nzinga, thinking it is Jannah, answers it, but is surprised to see Kayla and Jalil, who mention that Ms. Bashirah called them over to work on posters in the basement. The young and old Mr. Melvin, Ms. Berta, Aunt Maryam, and Ms. Maria with DeAngelo and Diana all come over as well to work on posters, and Ms. Bashirah sets up a charcuterie board of crackers, cheese, and turkey pepperoni, along with grapes and bottled water. Jannah then shows up, and Nzinga answers that Ms. Bashirah sent her over as well. Jannah nods in agreement.

Notes from EnderMirr
Mir talks about the custom-made trees he made for the garden, with trunks and branches made out of wool, and the slide that was made by Jannah, followed by mossy cobblestone blocks meant to represent rock-climbing, and a chest beside them with bonemeal and dye for the kids to paint the rocks for rock wars. The cherry tress that were lost have been replaced with cherry saplings, placing them around the perimeter of the lot while being careful not to take away places for sunbathing. Mir then highlights the benches on the far right of the lot, which is said to be where the rock garden will be, and then notes the honeysuckle bushes scattered around the area. Mir then says that he’ll continue working on it for the next four days, as there is no time to spare.