This article is about the theme park.   For the individual worlds in Minecraft, see World.

Artwork for Minecraft World
Minecraft World are upcoming theme parks created through a collaboration between Mojang Studios and Merlin Entertainments. The collaboration was announced on November 19, 2024 by Merlin Entertainments and by Mojang Studios at Minecraft Live – March 2026 on March 21, 2026.
The experience is scheduled to launch in the United Kingdom at Chessington World of Adventures in 2027. A United States location is planned for 2026–2027, with Merlin Entertainments intending to eventually expand the concept to additional destinations worldwide.

Contents

1 Overview
2 Videos
3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork

4.1.1 Former logo

4.2 Concept art
4.3 Trailer

5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Overview
The collaboration will bring Minecraft-themed immersive and interactive entertainment attractions in fixed locations around the globe. This will include digitally enabled real-life experiences with the help of 'Minebands', touchpoints that will allow guests to unlock exclusive in-game content, guest accommodations, retail, food & beverage, and attractions. It is also said to have the largest Minecraft-themed store in the world, and the first-ever minecart roller coaster.
The theme park is now under construction, with YouTubers, including DanTDM, LDShadowLady, Aimsey, Grian, GoodTimesWithScar and SmallishBeans, helping out on research and foundation.

Videos















Trivia
The theme park was initially named "Minecraft Adventure", with a trademark application being filed under the name and Rabbit's Foots Studios having produced animations for the park under that name.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Minecraft World logo




			The collaboration logo



			A lock up variant of the collaboration logo


Former logo



			A print version of the Minecraft Adventure logo



			The Minecraft Adventure logo



			An animation of the logo



			Ditto



			Ditto



			Ditto


Concept art



			A Minecraft x Merlin area concept art of an entrance



			Concept art of a village playground area



			Concept art of a cherry grove



			Concept art of a floating island area with Steve on top



			Concept art of the cave ride with TNT and some hostile mobs



			Concept art of the entrance to the cave ride



			Concept art of an arch featuring some mobs



			Concept art of a lush cave waiting line



			Concept art of a restaurant themed to the Nether



			Concept art of the gift shop



			Concept art of a Nether-themed roller coaster featuring a ghast shooting a fireball



			Concept art showing another waiting line, featuring ores and a crafting table interface



			Concept art of a potion stand with a witch



			Concept art of the start of the cave ride inside of an abandoned mineshaft


Trailer



			A creeper on a rail



			A goat ramming on the creeper



			The goat flying over the cliff



			The minecart plunging down the mountain



			A bee being followed by the minecart as it plunges



			Ditto



			The minecart entering a cave



			The minecart inside the cave


References

 "Minecraft In Real Life: Merlin Entertainments And Mojang Studios Join Forces To Create Location-Based Attractions"     – merlinentertainments.biz, November 19, 2024.

 "We're teaming up with Mojang Studios and @Minecraft for a global partnership that will see adventures brought to life like never before through immersive and interactive experiences 🎮👾Are you ready to play? ➡️ merlinentertainments.biz/newsroom/news-…"  – @MerlinEntsNews  on X (formerly Twitter), November 19, 2024

 "Minecraft World"     – Chessington.com.

 "CWOA x Minecraft World Extended Cut"  – Chessington World of Adventures Resort on YouTube, March 20, 2026

 "MINECRAFT ADVENTURE - Trademark Details"     – justia.com, January 17, 2025.

External links
Minecraft World - Official website from Chessington World of Adventures
Navigation