Contents

1 Chapter 1
2 Chapter 2
3 Chapter 3
4 Chapter 4
5 Chapter 5
6 Chapter 6

Chapter 1
The Admin meets Jesse at Beacontown, and the two fight each other after changing time from day to night and destroying part of Beacontown in the process. The Admin also takes the structure block away from Jesse and swallows it whole. As the Admin is about to swallow Jesse whole, Lukas distracts him with a bow to the eye, saving Jesse from certain death. Jesse realizes that the symbol on the Admin's head was the same symbol shown on the prismarine soldiers back at the Sea Temple, and that destroying the symbol is the only way of destroying the Admin. They take Lukas' horse, climbs up the Admin, and defeats it, dropping a giant clock in the process, which Jesse uses to make the sun come up.

Chapter 2
In the aftermath, Jesse and the others attempt to rebuild Beacontown, with Jesse choosing whether to give Lukas or Radar the title of "Clockmaster", which involves watching the giant clock all day. Jesse meets up with Jack and Vos, who unintentionally spill that they are about to go on a new adventure with Nurm and Petra, much to the disgust of Jesse.
Jesse and Petra suddenly see snowflakes falling in Beacontown, with one of them melting inside the prismarine gauntlet, revealing "the Admin" to be a snow golem. The golem gives Jesse a challenge: Beacontown will remain dark and huddled with hostile mobs until Jesse reclaims the giant clock, which the snow golem claims is "at the tippy top of his awesome, fantastic, super-deadly icy palace of despair". Jesse and several others fight off numerous strays and zombies, and the group (consisting of Jesse, Petra, Lukas, Radar, Jack, and Vos) head toward the icy palace. On their way to the icy palace, the group encounter Lluna and Stella, once more talking about their "rivalry". The group ignore her, and she eventually tags along with them in order to "keep an eye on them".

Chapter 3
While at the icy palace, Stella reveals that Radar was originally part of Stella's inventory management team, and insists that Jesse be careful about Radar having too much leadership. Jesse then pulls a "mystery lever", summoning the snow golem. He has a conversation with the group, mentioning only the "best of the best" are able to reach the giant clock, and decides to drop the group into the pit.

Chapter 4
At the hub, Jesse can choose whether to go with Lukas or Petra in order to find the clock. The group eventually end up in a roller-coaster-like maze, and meet the snow golem once more, giving the group (consisting of Jesse, Lukas, and Radar or Jesse, Petra, Jack, and Vos) several challenges, such as the shooting gallery room/icy spider room, and a fight with the larger icy golem/icy spiders, depending on player choices.

Chapter 5
After overcoming the challenges, the group reunites, but nonetheless the Admin insists that "the losers are supposed to lose", and throws Jack/Radar into another challenge, while Vos suddenly disappears. The group then mine their way out with a diamond pickaxe, and use a shulker to levitate to the spire, with them facing various icy ender creepers.

Chapter 6
With Jesse and the group at the top of the spire, they can then choose whether Jack or Petra should get the clock, and whether Stella should come along or leave her be. Jack/Petra make it up to the clock and destroys it, turning the world back to normal time. Jack insists on finding Vos, and the group help Jack find him. Suddenly, Vos' demeanor shifts, revealing him to be the Admin, and he insists on partnering with Stella (only if the player decides to let her come along). Afterward, the Admin teleports Jesse to a jailhouse.
In a post-credits scene, the warden tells the player that the Admin sends people there for whom he has "special plans", and that the people are "not very nice, either". The scene then cuts to Prisoner X laughing malevolently.