This article needs to be rewritten. [discuss]
It may contain inappropriate or inaccurate information. Please help us by rewriting it.

Minecraft (franchise)

Genre

Action-adventure
Video game

Years

2009–present

Owner

Microsoft

Developers

Mojang Studios

First installment

Minecraft

{
    "title": "Minecraft (franchise)",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* Action-adventure\n* Video game",
            "label": "Genre"
        },
        {
            "field": "2009–present",
            "label": "Years"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Microsoft article, displayed as Microsoft)",
            "label": "Owner"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Developers"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "First installment"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft as a franchise refers to the collection of official Minecraft media such as characters, video games, screen media, print media, websites, and merchandise released by Mojang Studios or their collaborators.

Contents

1 Games

1.1 Minecraft
1.2 Minecraft Reality
1.3 Minecraft: Story Mode

1.3.1 Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two

1.4 Minecraft Earth
1.5 Minecraft Dungeons

1.5.1 Minecraft Dungeons Arcade

1.6 Minecraft Dungeons II
1.7 Minecraft Legends
1.8 Minecraft Blast
1.9 Minecraft Hour of Code
1.10 Choose Your Mode
1.11 Oreo x A Minecraft Movie Experience
1.12 A Minecraft Movie Happy Meal

2 Media

2.1 Films

2.1.1 Minecraft: The Story of Mojang
2.1.2 A Minecraft Movie
2.1.3 A Minecraft Movie Squared

2.2 Series

2.2.1 Minecraft Mini-Series
2.2.2 Minecraft Animated Series

2.3 Novels
2.4 Children's books

2.4.1 Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
2.4.2 Minecraft: Stonesword Saga
2.4.3 Minecraft: Ironsword Academy
2.4.4 Step into Reading series
2.4.5 Mobs of Minecraft

2.5 Board games

2.5.1 Minecraft: Builders & Biomes
2.5.2 Minecraft: Heroes of the Village
2.5.3 Minecraft: Portal Dash

2.6 Other

2.6.1 Dark Horse Comics series
2.6.2 Minecraft Card Game
2.6.3 Minecraft: The Manga

3 Merchandise
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Games
Minecraft
Minecraft is a 3D sandbox game developed by Mojang Studios. It was fully released on November 18, 2011. It overtook Tetris around the year 2017 with over 300 million copies and being sold to Microsoft for $2.4 billion (£2 billion in the UK or €1.93 billion in any eurozone country).

Minecraft Reality
Minecraft Reality - augmented reality app developed by 13thLab, based on Minecraft released on November 25, 2012 and was discontinued for unknown reasons.

Minecraft: Story Mode
Minecraft: Story Mode was an episodic point-and-click narrative-driven graphic adventure video game based on the sandbox video game Minecraft, released in October 2015 across multiple platforms with a Microsoft Store (Windows) release on December 16, 2015, a Wii U release on January 21, 2016, a tvOS release on August 24, 2016, a Nintendo Switch release on August 22, 2017, and a Netflix release on November 27, 2018. The game was developed by Mojang Studios, the developer of Minecraft, in collaboration with Telltale Games. Music for the game was composed by Anadel, an atmospheric folk band based in California. The game follows the episodic format that Telltale Games has used for its previous titles, where player choices and actions have significant effects on later story elements. The game is discontinued as of June 25, 2019, due to the closure of Telltale Games on October 11, 2018.

Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two
Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two was an episodic point-and-click narrative-driven graphic adventure video game based on the sandbox video game Minecraft, released in July 2017 across multiple platforms, with a Nintendo Switch release on November 6, 2018. The game was developed by Mojang Studios, the developer of Minecraft, in collaboration with Telltale Games. Music for the game was also composed by Anadel, an atmospheric folk band based in California. The game follows the episodic format that Telltale has used for its previous titles, where player choices and actions have significant effects on later story elements. The game is discontinued as of June 25, 2019, due to the closure of Telltale Games on October 11, 2018.

Minecraft Earth
Minecraft Earth was a free-to-play augmented reality mobile game for iOS, iPadOS, and Android, based around building structures and collecting materials by traveling to real-life locations. Released worldwide on December 11, 2019 after a months-long closed beta, Minecraft Earth was discontinued on June 30, 2021, citing the COVID-19 pandemic as a factor.

Minecraft Dungeons
Minecraft Dungeons is an action-adventure role-playing game developed by Mojang Studios, Xbox Game Studios and Double Eleven. It was released on May 26, 2020, for Windows, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4, September 15, 2020, for Xbox Cloud Gaming, on November 10, 2020, for the Xbox Series X|S, and on September 22, 2021, for Steam for Windows.

Minecraft Dungeons Arcade
Minecraft Dungeons Arcade is an arcade adaptation of Minecraft Dungeons developed by Mojang Studios and Play Mechanix. It was released in the third quarter of 2021.

Minecraft Dungeons II
Minecraft Dungeons II is the sequel to Minecraft Dungeons, announced at Minecraft Live – March 2026.

Minecraft Legends
Minecraft Legends is a real-time action strategy game developed by Mojang Studios, Xbox Game Studios, and Blackbird Interactive. It was released on April 18, 2023.

Minecraft Blast
Minecraft Blast is an upcoming mobile puzzle game with no set release date, being developed by Mojang Studios and King.

Minecraft Hour of Code
The Minecraft Hour of Code web page lists 4 Minecraft games:

Minecraft Adventurer
Minecraft Designer
Minecraft Hero's Journey
Minecraft Voyage Aquatic
These all came from Minecraft Education (former name Minecraft Education Edition). (Copyrighted by Code.org and Microsoft).

Choose Your Mode
Choose Your Mode - an  augmented reality (AR) game developed as a result of the Crocs collaboration, which has two modes: construction and an endless runner in which player can collect jibbitz blocks.

Oreo x A Minecraft Movie Experience
Oreo x A Minecraft Movie Experience - an online region-locked augmented reality (AR) game developed as a result of the Oreo collaboration, in which the player is given the opportunity to walk around Steve's Secret Stash and interact with objects in it.

A Minecraft Movie Happy Meal
A Minecraft Movie Happy Meal - is an online video game created as a result of the collaboration McDonald's x A Minecraft Movie, in which the player must collect resources and craft items from the movie.

Media
Films
Minecraft: The Story of Mojang
Minecraft: The Story of Mojang is a 2012 documentary created by 2 Player Productions about the history and development of Mojang Studios. It was directed by Paul Owens and produced by Paul Levering, Peter De Bourcier and Burnie Burns, with additional funding given through a Kickstarter campaign. The movie was announced on February 21, 2011, was streamed on Xbox Live on December 22, 2012, and publicly released on other platforms, including The Pirate Bay, the next day.

A Minecraft Movie
A Minecraft Movie is a 2025 action-adventure live-action/CGI hybrid film based on the video game Minecraft. It was directed by Jared Hess and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer, Neil Widener, Gavin James, and Chris Galletta, based on a story by Allison Schroeder, Bowman, and Palmer, and was released on April 4, 2025 by Warner Bros. Pictures. The movie also features Jack Black as Steve, Jason Momoa as Garett Garrison, Emma Myers as Natalie, Sebastian Eugene as Henry and Danielle Brooks as Dawn.

A Minecraft Movie Squared
A Minecraft Movie Squared is an upcoming live-action/CGI hybrid film as a sequel to A Minecraft Movie.

Series
Minecraft Mini-Series
The Minecraft Mini-Series is an action/adventure animated web series based on Mojang Studios's Minecraft. The series is produced by Mojang Studios and Xbox Game Studios in collaboration with Atomic Cartoons and Mattel Creations, with Christopher Keenan serving as executive producer, and premiered on October 26, 2017, on the Mattel Action YouTube channel, with the final episode being released on May 10, 2018.

Minecraft Animated Series
Minecraft Animated Series - an upcoming Minecraft series Netflix being created that, according to the creators, will "tell an original story with new characters and reflect the world of Minecraft in a new light”.

Novels
Main article: Minecraft Novels
The Minecraft Official Novels are a series of novels for Minecraft. The novels are written by various authors.

Children's books
Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Luke Flowers, Alan Batson, and Chris Hill.

Minecraft: Stonesword Saga
Minecraft: Stonesword Saga is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Alan Batson and Chris Hill.

Minecraft: Ironsword Academy
Minecraft: Ironsword Academy is an ongoing series of children's books written by Caleb Zane Huett and illustrated by Alan Batson and Chris Hill.

Step into Reading series
Minecraft is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Alan Batson.

Mobs of Minecraft
Mobs of Minecraft is a series of children's books written by Christy Webster and illustrated by Alan Batson.

Board games
Minecraft: Builders & Biomes
Minecraft: Builders & Biomes is a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger. In the game, players explore the Overworld and build structures while defeating hostile mobs, with the goal being to score as many experience points as possible. Players are also allowed to collect blocks and weapons.

Minecraft: Heroes of the Village
Minecraft: Heroes of the Village is a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger. In the game, players work together to defend a village from an illager raid by constructing buildings in the village. Players are also able to collect blocks and fight mobs.

Minecraft: Portal Dash
Minecraft: Portal Dash is a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger. In the game, the player(s) attempt(s) to get to a nether portal to escape from the Nether. Players may also fight hostile mobs.

Other
Dark Horse Comics series
Minecraft is a graphic novel series based on the video game of the same name, published by Dark Horse Comics in partnership with Mojang Studios.

Minecraft Card Game
The Minecraft Card Game is a card game published by Mojang Studios and Mattel Games. In the game, players "mine" resource cards so they can be used to "craft" cards, which in turn can be used to craft tools to collect points.

Minecraft: The Manga
Minecraft: The Manga is an ongoing manga series written by Kazuyoshi Seto. Originally published by Shogakukan as Minecraft: Journey to the World's End (Japanese: MINECRAFTマインクラフト〜世界の果てへの旅〜, Hepburn: Mainkurafuto: Sekai no Hate e no Tabi) in Japan, it is licensed and translated to English by Viz Media.

Merchandise
Main article: Merchandise
Various official merchandise for Minecraft has been released, including merchandise collaborations with brands such as LEGO, Youtooz, and Hot Wheels.

See also
Character
Minecraft in popular culture
References

 ‘Minecraft’ Animated Series in the Works at Netflix Featuring New Characters – Variety; May 30, 2024

External links
minecraft.net
Navigation