Minecraft: Pocket Edition Trailer 2015





Type

Mojang machinima

Date

December 9, 2015

Length

2:04

{
    "title": "Minecraft: Pocket Edition Trailer 2015",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang machinima article, displayed as Mojang machinima)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 9, 2015",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:04",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Minecraft: Pocket Edition Trailer 2015 is a trailer for Pocket Edition released in 2015. The video was entirely composed of footage from a mobile device, prefaced at the start of the video.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters

2 Quotes
3 Gallery
4 Navigation

Summary
The video opens on Steve fishing at a lake, as Alex chases an ocelot in the background. Steve notices their presence, and brings them fish to tame the cat. The three retreat to an acacia mansion with podzol roads, where Alex decides to brew a potion of Invisibility. Later, Steve and Alex board minecarts down into a mine decorated with vegetation and mushrooms. After the trek they find a blob of diamond ore, and begin mining it with iron pickaxes.
From there they light a Nether portal, and two more players approach, named FranktheFarmer and BethTheBandit. All four emerge in the Nether, taking on a ghast head-on, followed by magma cubes, and then blazes. They return to the mansion, and begin placing down blocks such as glass panes and fences, before tending to various farm animals, such as sheep. The scene shifts to a large machine made of quartz slabs and redstone lamps, where Steve is playing note blocks. Alex sets off TNT, which is implied to kill Steve.
The four players converge in a garden, before heading off through a taiga to a plains village. A zombie kills and infects a butcher, creating a zombie villager. All four players rush in and begin fighting the monsters, ending the video.

Characters

Alex
BethTheBandit
Black Sheep
Blaze
Butcher
Chicken Jockey
Cow
Creeper
FrankTheFarmer
Ghast
Magma Cube
Ocelot
Pig
Siamese Cat
Skeleton
Spider
Steve
White Sheep
Zombie
Zombie Butcher
Zombie Pigman
Quotes
“We've been adding loads of new features to Minecraft: Pocket Edition over the past few months. To celebrate, we've created this calming trailer for your viewing pleasure.„ — Video description
Gallery







			Steve and Alex doing redstone



			Steve and Alex opening a Nether portal


Navigation