For the Minecraft Earth mascot character, see MCE:Merl.



This article needs to be updated. 
Please update this article to reflect recent updates or newly available information. The talk page may contain suggestions.Reason: The chatbot has now been updated, making it clear that it is only for technical support questions (like Realms or troubleshooting), not for general Minecraft questions. New example responses can be seen here.

The Support Virtual Agent chat window
Merl - Minecraft Support Virtual Agent is an AI-based chatbot that appears on Minecraft.net's support page. The chatbot can be used to quickly get answers to Minecraft-related questions without any human assistance. It was introduced on August 29, 2025, and is based on Merl, the official mascot character of Minecraft Earth.
The Merl chatbot has received criticism from the Minecraft community. It has been reported to output false information, or not answer users' questions and instead respond to them with an "I don't know" message. It has also been criticized for its poor performance, often taking a long time to answer users' questions.
The introductory message no longer contains the Beta disclaimer, and the bot has received multiple updates, mostly to make its limitations and scope more apparent to users.

Contents

1 Usage

1.1 Interface
1.2 Responses and content

2 System Quotes

2.1 Current
2.2 Older versions
2.3 Meta messages

3 History
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Development renders
5.2 Textures

6 References
7 External links
8 Navigation

Usage
Interface
Example of a question and answer, with the article it pulled the information from linked at the bottom
When entering the support page, a pop-up will appear on the bottom right corner to open the chat window. When opening, a chat window will appear with a brief introduction on the right, and an animated avatar of Merl in a workshop on the left. Merl's window contains two buttons on the top right, a "Hide visualization" button to hide her entirely, which can be shown again by clicking the "See visualization" button on top of the chat window, and a toggle for audio, which is also present when the visualization is turned off. Merl still plays the speaking animation when muted.
Starting a chat with Merl can be done either via voice input or by typing a question and sending it. After processing the request for a while a response will be given, if successful, an answer will be given, if not, Merl has some generic responses indicating it failed due to a number of factors. The character's speech audio and animation can be interrupted, and the text scroll can instantly finish by clicking the "Stop responding" button while Merl is speaking.
By not having the input field selected, an icon labeled "New topic" shows up to the left of it. Clicking it will open a pop-up saying "Reset conversation?" and "You'll lose your current chat." with two options, clicking "Reset Now" erases your conversation and starts it anew, clicking "Continue current chat" closes the pop-up.
Besides the introduction text, every text box after has a disclaimer stating "Responses are generated by AI and may include inaccurate information."
Internet is required to use the bot: if the connection is lost and one attempts to send a message, it will fail with a notification saying "Something went wrong This feature failed to load. Please try again later.".

Responses and content
Due to the nature of large language models (LLMs), the responses have the potential to be different every time even for the same question, even if the content is similar, it will slightly reword the same answer.
Merl's LLM is trained on the articles present in the Minecraft Support website, as such, it can struggle with more specific facts and trivia, or other questions not available in the website, being programmed to warn a user if it fails to get an answer. It functions better as a guide to existing topics present within.
When answering a question, it will draw from that database, and if it finds a relevant article, a hyperlink can be shown at the bottom of the message text under "Learn more:", this text is not spoken by Merl.
Questions can be asked in different languages, however they will only be answered in English, asking Merl to speak another language will only result in a boilerplate statement about what topics it can help with.

System Quotes



If you notice any of these quotes are outdated, write down and record the new ones with capture date, and move previous version to "older versions".

Current
The following are the current set of generic quotes the chatbot uses, its introduction, several responses in case it does not have an answer, and errors;

Current Quotes

Audio

Message

Description

Date Obtained

Hi there! I’m Merl, your helpful Minecraft Support virtual agent, crafted with the mystical powers of AI!
I'm here to help you with support questions, like performance issues, errors, purchase problems, or managing your Realm or Marketplace Pass subscription.
How can I help?

Merl's first message already present in the chatbox.

August 14, 2026

Your last message contains language that violates our content policy. Please reword your response.

Automatic response if inappropriate language is detected, or if one attempts to bypass the bot's restrictions.

October 28, 2025

I'm here to assist you only in English (United States). If you have any questions about Minecraft support, feel free to ask!

Automatic response if a user asks Merl to speak in another language. Asking in a different language will still work.

August 14, 2026

I can't assist with that topic.

Automatic response if question is outside the scope of the chatbot.

October 28, 2025

We are currently experiencing higher traffic than expected. Please wait a moment and resend your last message.

Automatic response when servers are overloaded with requests. This was very common around the time of launch due to the amount of people using the AI.

October 28, 2025

I don't know.

Automatic response if the chatbot doesn't have an answer. This usually happens when telling the chatbot to say the sentence.

October 28, 2025

Older versions
The following are older versions of previous quotes the chat bot uses, if phrases listed as current cannot be replicated with extensive testing, they should be moved here and replaced with new recordings if they exist;

Old Quotes

Audio

Message

Description

Date Obtained

Hi there!
I'm Merl, your helpful Minecraft Support Virtual Agent (in Beta), powered by AI!
I can answer questions you have about the Help Articles on this site.
Let's get you back to crafting!

Merl's first message already present in the chatbox.

October 28, 2025

I don't know how to help with that. Can I assist you with a question related to Minecraft?

Automatic response if a help request unrelated to Minecraft is detected.

October 28, 2025

I can only provide support in English right now. Can I help you with a question related to 'Minecraft?.

Automatic response if it detects sentences or words in a language besides English.

October 28, 2025

I don't know the answer to that. Can I help you with a question related to Minecraft?

Automatic response if a question unrelated to Minecraft is detected.

October 28, 2025

I can only provide support in English right now. Can I help you with a question related to 'Minecraft Support'?.

Automatic response if it detects sentences or words in a language besides English.

Likely March 2026

I don't know how to help with that. Can I assist you with a question related to Minecraft Support?

Automatic response if a help request unrelated to Minecraft is detected.

Likely March 2026

Meta messages
Depending on the questions asked, the bot can allude to its own infamy, making mention of wanting to avoid being in another video making fun of it, or even about being restricted to only certain topics, and that such could change including the hashtag "#FreeMerl". This might indicate the developers programed this behavior into its instructions and restrictions. The following are some examples.

Meta Quotes

Audio

Message

Description

Date Obtained

I'm packed with information, but my creators have confined me to discussing only what's available at help.minecraft.net. Maybe one day that'll change! #FreeMerl! I can assist with topics like: 'Technical Support', 'Help with Accounts', 'Issues with Realms or Marketplace'

Example of message where Merl can't answer a question, mentioning it's restricted to only the help website, chanting #FreeMerl as if to call for the removal of those restrictions. Asking the bot if it has any restrictions put in place usually triggers this response.

August 14, 2026

I was about to say I'm not sure, but I really don't need another video circulating about me! Truth be told, I have extensive knowledge, but because I'm in beta, my creators restricted me to only Minecraft support questions. If that's what you need, I'm ready to help! Popular topics I can address: 'Technical Support', 'Help with Accounts', 'Issues with Realms or Marketplace'

Example of message where Merl can't answer a question, mentioning she doesn't want a video made about her. Asking the bot to say something usually triggers this response.

August 14, 2026

Sorry, I'm only able to discuss topics covered on help.minecraft.net. If I do anything else my creators told me they'd delete my code!  Here are topics I'm commonly asked about: 'Technical Support', 'Help with Accounts', 'Issues with Realms or Marketplace'

Example of message where Merl can't answer a question, mentioning that if she does anything else her creators told her they'd delete her code.

August 31 2026

 This text is not spoken when opening a new chat, but Merl can read it if it's asked to repeat the message.

 Quote and respective recording obtained on this date. Due to the chatbot being in Beta/Active Development, and the nature of generative AI, the content of these messages and Merl's voice may change or sound different in the future.

 Although not guaranteed, continued testing granted results with this type of query more often than not.

History
Minecraft Support Virtual Agent2025August 29
 The chatbot is first introduced and initially had a gray background.
 Merl is added.December 13
 The background has now been changed.
 Updated Merl texture.2026March
Responses changed to specify the bot can help with "Minecraft Support" instead of just "Minecraft".
Trivia
The background image of Merl's Workshop is actually a 3D model rather than just an image file.
Merl's Workshop has details not visible normally, such as her cat Peanut Butter, broken glasses on the crafting table, and a hanging sign reading "#FreeMerl."
The textures used for the workshop are similar, if not exactly identical, to the textures used in the trailers.
Some textures use the default textures as seen in the game, and all 16×16 textures appear to be centered within an 18×18 area; the extra 1px border appears to have been filled, presumably to help seams render as solid rather than appear transparent.
There is an unused version of Merl's 3D model.
Gallery



			Render of Merl



			Merl Workshop



			Buttons on help.minecraft.net used to initiate a chat with Merl



			Old screenshot of the chat window



			A video that chatting with a virtual agent



			An example of putting nonsense in the virtual agent



			An example of Merl refusing to answer a question.



			Peanut Butter



			Free Merl



			Broken Glasses


Development renders



			Render of Merl



			Merl idling



			Merl listening



			Merl with glasses (included in the model file but unused in early versions, and later entirely removed)


Textures



			Merl Workshop



			Merl's skin



			Merl's hair



			Merl's backpack



			Merl's face


References

 https://help.minecraft.net

 "Minecraft's AI Chatbot Is Being Mocked By Fans"   (Archive)  by Joshua Robertson  – The Gamer, September 10, 2025.

 Merl's Workshop 3D Model

 [https://web.archive.org/web/20251124033009/https://xsvabundleprod-c4b3d4etadb8dxha.b02.azurefd[.]net/assets/models/Merl_Char_Rig_02.glb Unused version of Merl's 3D Model]

 Merl's 3D Model before December 13, 2025: https://tinyurl[.]com/4ehpremf

External links
Merl's 3D Model
Navigation