This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Remaining animations



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Minecraft Movie Voting Event

Developer(s)

Noxcrew, Mojang Studios

Edition(s)

Bedrock Edition

Release date

July 2, 2026

Closing date

July 6, 2026

Article

"Minecraft Movie Build Challenge Voting Event"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Minecraft Movie Voting Event",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Noxcrew article, displayed as Noxcrew), (link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as ''Bedrock Edition'')",
            "label": "Edition(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 2, 2026",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 6, 2026",
            "label": "Closing date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-movie-voting-event \"Minecraft Movie Build Challenge Voting Event\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MMVE Builds.png"
    ]
}

Minecraft Movie Voting Event was an event server made in collaboration with Noxcrew. This event was set inside at a movie theater where players could participate to vote for which of three finalists of the build challenge's builds they want to see in A Minecraft Movie Squared. The event ran from July 2 to July 6, 2026.

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Lobby
1.2 Auditorium

2 Finalists

2.1 Builds
2.2 Materials & Blueprints
2.3 Lightning Rod Lighthouse
2.4 Copper Badlands Castle
2.5 Tree Village

3 Results
4 Sounds
5 Quotes
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Promotional images
7.2 Sprites
7.3 Renders
7.4 Animations
7.5 Dialogue boxes
7.6 DDUI dialogs

8 References
9 Navigation

Description
The theatre
When joining the world, players spawn on a red carpet in front of a theatre, surrounded by paparazzi and a crowd.
From there, they can access the theatre lobby.

Lobby
The theatre lobby
Upon entering the lobby, players can learn more about the event by using the buttons. In the center of the lobby is a VIP cow in a photocall that players can take a screenshot with.
On the left of the lobby, a bar staffed by a drink attendant is located; interacting with the attendant allows the player to choose between a Fizz Pop, a Fizzy Pop, or a Phizzy Pop, each of which grants a different potion effect when consumed, and can be stacked up to 16. On the right, a cloakroom staffed by a cloakroom attendant is available; interacting with this attendant allows the player to obtain a VIP Coat, which can be equipped as wearable armor. Both the drinks and the VIP Coat can be claimed an unlimited number of times.

Image

Name

Effect

Fizz Pop

When consumed, gives player 15 seconds of Speed.

Fizzy Pop

When consumed, gives player 15 seconds of Jump Boost.

Phizzy Pop

When consumed, gives player 5 seconds of Levitation.

VIP Coat

Can be worn on the upper body of the player.



			The drinks attendant



			The cloakroom attendant



			The VIP cow photocall


Auditorium
The auditorium
Once through the lobby, players can access the auditorium. The three finalist builds are displayed on the stage, where players can visit each build and read its description on the accompanying plaques. Voting booths are positioned in front of the stage, each aligned with its corresponding build. After casting a vote, players can change their selection by submitting a new vote at a different voting booth.
Players can access the auditorium balconies via side entrances, either by staircases or by completing a parkour. The left-side parkour is themed around a mountain, while the right-side parkour is themed around the badlands.

Finalists
The finalists are presented with a lectern in front of it, showing the name of the build and containing a small description.
When voting, a window asks if you want to cast a vote, and that the vote can be changed later. When done, a "You Have Voted For This Build!" toast appears, and a green "Voted!" text appears above your username.

Builds

Name

Build By

Build Description

Image

Lightning Rod Lighthouse

Francisco C. M.

A unique base atop a small iceberg of oxidized copper, tuff bricks, and dark prismarine. Two towers connected by a bridge. The lightning rod channels raw energy to power the base.

Copper Badlands Castle

Rosanna C.

A castle built using the new copper blocks. Really tough to fit within the space, but such a fun challenge. Also experimented with glazed terracotta.

Tree Village

Ben V.

Giant custom trees whose trunks merge into a single vertical structure — more like an entire village suspended among the branches than one house in a tree.

Materials & Blueprints

Lightning Rod Lighthouse
Main article: Movie:Minecraft Movie Build Challenge/Blueprints/Lightning Rod Lighthouse[edit]

Copper Badlands Castle
Main article: Movie:Minecraft Movie Build Challenge/Blueprints/Copper Badlands Castle[edit]

Tree Village
Main article: Movie:Minecraft Movie Build Challenge/Blueprints/Tree Village[edit]

Results
The Winner
The Finalists & Honorable Mention
The winner of the contest was announced on July 10, 2026 as "Lightning Rod Lighthouse" by Francisco C. M. It was then decided that due to amazement by the talent and creativity of every participant, that all of the finalists builds will included in A Minecraft Movie Squared.
These are builds that will include in the movie or end credits:

Lightning Rod Lighthouse by Francisco C.M – Grand Prize winner
Copper Badlands Castle by Rosanna C. – Finalist
Tranquil Taiga Tower by Iola Y. – Finalist
Tree Village by Ben V. –  Honorable Mention
Mojang acknowledged that there was an oversight during their admission process. They overlooked the Tree Village build that contained blocks from multiple biomes. Although they appreciated it with good intentions, they ultimately had to remove it. However, due to the strong support it received from both the community, the judging panel, and the filmmakers, they decided to recognize it as an honorable mention and have it appear in the movie alongside the finalists and the overall winner. They explained that swapping a different build and restarting the vote would result in all other finalists losing all the votes they had already earned. They would rather have more builds in the movie, rather than restarting the voting process all over again.

Sounds
SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​NoneUI?noxcrew​ ?0.71.0​NoneAmbient/EnvironmentOn the red carpetcrowd_loop​ ?0.91.0​NoneFriendly Mobs?start_door​ ?2.01.0​NoneFriendly MobsOn the red carpetflash​ ?0.41.0​NoneFriendly MobsOn the red carpetflash​ ?0.41.1​NoneFriendly MobsWhen the piglin is doing its special animationpiglin_special​ ?0.71.0​NoneUIWhen submiting a votevote​ ?0.81.0​NoneUIWhen starting to drinkcan_open​ ?0.71.0​NoneUIAfter drinking Fizz Popfizz_pop​ ?0.71.0​NoneUIAfter drinking Fizzy Popfizzy_pop​ ?0.71.0​NoneUIAfter drinking Phizzy Popphizzy_pop​ ?0.71.0
Quotes

“Hey, I'm in some of the builds that were made for this contest.Maybe... I don't know, I'm just a cow.Why don't you moo-ove over here and take a picture.„ — VIP Cow
“Would you like a drink?We have Fizz Pop, Fizzy Pop, and Phizzy Pop.They're sure to put a spring in your step!„ — Drinks Attendant
“Hello! May I take your coat?Or would you like a coat?I take and give coats.„ — Cloakroom Attendant
“You can find the voting area through these doors.All the builds are lined up for your viewing pleasure.You can vote at the ballots for each build in front of the stage.„ — Security

Trivia
Players can get outside of the map bounds by drinking Phizzy Pop (for Levitation) between the unlit Nether portal and the building entrance, to levitate between the center two light bulbs (coordinates 50, 102, 208.5) and get above the barriers. Here, the entire map can be seen floating in the void, as well as some copies of the candidate builds placed with structure blocks.
The Tranquil Taiga Tower build has only been shown in the announcement image, but the full build or the materials it used hasn't been showcased to the public.
Gallery
Promotional images



			Server Artwork



			Notification to join server



			Server banner



			Cover art for Instagram post advertising the event



			Post from X (formerly known as Twitter) with all three contenders' builds


Sprites



			Animation that shows above the vote button on the title screen



			Server icon


Renders



			Cloakroom Attendant



			Drinks Attendant



			Paparazzi



			Piglin



			Villager



			Villager 1



			Villager 2



			Villager 3



			Villager 4



			Villager 5



			Villager 6



			VIP Cow


Animations



			Piglin idling



			Piglin sitting



			Piglin special animation




			Villager idling



			Villager sitting



			Villager chatting



			Villager special animation 1



			Villager special animation 2



			Villager special animation 3



			Paparazzi taking pictures




			VIP Cow idling



			VIP Cow special animation 1



			VIP Cow special animation 2


Dialogue boxes



			Cloakroom Attendant



			Drinks Attendant



			Security



			VIP Cow


DDUI dialogs



			Information



			More Information



			Lightning Rod Lighthouse Description



			Copper Badlands Castle Description



			Tree Village Description



			Lightning Rod Lighthouse Vote prompt



			Copper Badlands Castle Vote prompt



			Tree Village Vote prompt



			Confirm Vote


References

 "Minecraft Movie Build Challenge Voting Event"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, July 2, 2026.

 "Minecraft Movie Build Challenge Winner Announcement"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, July 10, 2026.

 "Which Build should win the Minecraft Movie Build Challenge and appear in A Minecraft Movie: Squared*? Learn how to cast your vote at the link in bio from now until July 6 at 11:59PM PT." – @minecraft on Instagram, July 2, 2026

 "It's time to choose your favorite finalist from the @AMinecraftMovie Build Challenge! Which Build would you like to see in A Minecraft Movie: Squared*? Learn how to cast your vote by July 6 at aka.ms/votingevent"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), July 2, 2026

Navigation