This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition. 

Mini Game Masters Skin Pack

Skins

30

Price

 310 Minecoins

Release date

BE: September 12, 2017
LCE: March 28, 2017

Website page

Mini Game Masters in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Mini Game Masters Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "30",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 310 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' September 12, 2017\n*'''LCE:''' March 28, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=14356ef7-7ec7-4cea-a4c8-0bf8df990ebb Mini Game Masters in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Mini Game Masters Skin Pack is a skin pack themed around several teams of three characters, each embodying a mob partaking in some sort of sport, with battlers wearing armor, gliders wearing flightsuits, and tumblers wearing more conventional athletic gear (somewhat reminiscent of roller derby). This skin pack was released in promotion of the mini games, which were included in the Legacy Console Editions.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition

4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Blaze Battler

A person dressed as a blaze in order to play the battle minigame

Blaze Glider

A person dressed as a blaze in order to play the glider minigame

Blaze Tumbler

A person dressed as a blaze in order to play the tumble minigame

Creeper Battler

A person dressed as a creeper in order to play the battle minigame

Creeper Glider

A person dressed as a creeper in order to play the glider minigame

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Creeper Tumbler

A person dressed as a creeper in order to play the tumble minigame

End Battler

A person dressed as an enderman in order to play the battle minigame

End Glider

A person dressed up as the ender dragon in order to play the glider minigame

End Tumbler

A person dressed as an enderman (with shulker details) in order to play the tumble minigame

Ghast Battler

A person dressed as a ghast in order to play the battle minigame

Ghast Glider

A person dressed as a ghast in order to play the glider minigame

Ghast Tumbler

A person dressed as a ghast in order to play the tumble minigame

Guardian Battler

A person dressed as a guardian in order to play the battle minigame

Guardian Glider

A person dressed as a guardian in order to play the glider minigame

Guardian Tumbler

A person dressed as a guardian in order to play the tumble minigame

Pig Battler

A person dressed as a pig in order to play the battle minigame

Pig Glider

A person dressed as a pig in order to play the glider minigame

Pig Tumbler

A person dressed as a pig (with a carrot-on-a-stick eyepiece) in order to play the tumble minigame

Squid Battler

A person dressed as a squid in order to play the battle minigame

Squid Glider

A person dressed as a squid in order to play the glider minigame

Squid Tumbler

A person dressed as a squid in order to play the tumble minigame

Wither Battler

A person dressed as a wither in order to play the battle minigame

Wither Glider

A person dressed as a wither in order to play the glider minigame

Wither Tumbler

A person dressed as a wither in order to play the tumble minigame

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Wolf Battler

A person dressed as a wolf in order to play the battle minigame

Wolf Glider

A person dressed as a wolf in order to play the glider minigame

Wolf Tumbler

A person dressed as a wolf in order to play the tumble minigame

Zombie Battler

A zombie (with a chest for a head/helmet for some reason) dressed up in order to play the battle minigame

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Zombie Glider

A  zombie (with a chicken on their head) dressed up in order to play the glider minigame

Zombie Tumbler

A  zombie dressed up in order to play the tumble minigame

Quotes
“Calling all beasts of Battle, titans of Tumble and gods of Glide: the ultimate in Mini Game themed sporting skins are here! So slip into that streamlined spandex, strap on those sturdy pads, and prepare to out-style AND out-play your friends.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket EditionSeptember 12, 2017
Added the Mini Game Masters Skin Pack to the Marketplace.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU51CU411.441.441.44Patch 201.0.3
Added the Mini Game Masters Skin Pack.
Trivia
Unlike the other teams, which consist of humans dressed in mob-inspired clothing, the zombie team is implied to be made up of actual zombies wearing crude “armor” assembled out of whatever they could find.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional render of the Creeper Battler, Creeper Glider and Creeper Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the End Battler, End Glider and End Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Pig Battler, Pig Glider and Pig Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Squid Battler, Squid Glider and Squid Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Zombie Battler, Zombie Glider and Zombie Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Blaze Battler, Blaze Glider and Blaze Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Ghast Battler, Ghast Glider and Ghast Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Guardian Battler, Guardian Glider and Guardian Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Wither Battler, Wither Glider and Wither Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Wolf Battler, Wolf Glider and Wolf Tumbler.



			Key art of the skin pack without text.


Promotional images


















References

 "Mini Game Masters Glide onto Console"     by Marsh Davies  – Minecraft.net, March 28, 2017.

Navigation