This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition. 

Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack

Skins

30

Price

 310 Minecoins

Release date

BE: September 12, 2017
LCE: June 27, 2017

Website page

Mini Game Heroes in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "30",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 310 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' September 12, 2017\n*'''LCE:''' June 27, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=4be7ca7a-bedc-478c-a988-f272d7a60fca Mini Game Heroes in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack is a skin pack that builds upon the Mini Game Masters Skin Pack and is themed around several teams of three characters, each embodying a mob partaking in some sort of sport. This skin pack was released in promotion of the mini games, which were included in the Legacy Console Editions, and was part of the Glide Track Pack Season Pass.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition

4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Promotional images

5 References
6 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Bat Battler

A grimacing human in padded armor in the shape of a bat, with a noticeable blue eyepatch or monocle.

Bat Glider

A human wearing large goggles, an aviator-like jacket, a parachute, and a helmet with bat ears and wings.

Bat Tumbler

Wearing a similar helmet to the Bat Glider, but with a different jacket and shoulder pads.

Cat Battler

A fanged human wearing a fursuit of a red cat, with three black cats and two Siamese cats strapped to their limbs.

Cat Glider

A human figure who appears to be smiling, wearing a costume of a black cat, with a red cat on their head and a green parachute.

Cat Tumbler

Similar to the Cat Glider, except the red cat is covering the person, visibly scaring them. The cat costume is also more abstract, resembling a Siamese cat with shoulder and knee pads of the cat's face.

Cow Battler

An angry, chubby human wearing a scant costume of a cow, with red eyes, stuffed cheeks, an exposed gut, and a nose ring.

Cow Glider

A slim human with an open mouth, a large comical cow helmet, and a nearly perfectly covering costume with a parachute that blends into the spots.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Cow Tumbler

A red haired human wearing an udder helmet, a sleeveless shirt with a cow pattern, a regular ponytail, and muscular arms and legs with pads.

Elder Guardian Battler

An elderly figure with red eyes, a long beard, a miniature monument on their head, a hunchback, elder guardian boxing gloves and backpack or parachute, and an orange jumpsuit.

Elder Guardian Glider

A near completely exposed human in padded armor resembling an elder guardian, with a helmet in the exact shape of one covering much of the head, similar to a turtle shell.

Elder Guardian Tumbler

A puffy cheeked figure wearing a spiked helmet and an elder guardian T-shirt.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Horse Battler

A stern figure in a horse costume, the only exposure being a hole under the jaw. The limbs are heavily armored, similar to a ravager, while the hips hold chests.

Horses cannot hold chests, however mules can.

Horse Glider

Similar to the battler, but with a creamy horse, and the armor exchanged with a lime parachute.

Horse Tumbler

Similar to the tumbler, but with a chestnut horse, and the parachute replaced with a helmet and pads of a slightly darker color.

Llama Battler

Costume of a gray llama, with the wearer having a noticeable beard, and a red carpet attached. Similar to the horse costume, the only sign of a human is a hole in the neck.

Llama Glider

Similar to the battler, but with a cyan carpet, a smaller vision hole with what appears to be a mouth guard, and a lime parachute.

Llama Tumbler

Similar to the other llamas, but with a creamy llama, pink carpet, and seafoam green pads.

Magma Cube Battler

A grimacing, stout figure in armor modeled after a magma cube, with a noticeable nose and missing tooth.

Magma Cube Glider

Similar to the battler, but with a lighter texture, slimmer armor, and golden parachute, giving the front a shape similar to suspenders.

Magma Cube Tumbler

A slim figure, with a helmet of a magma cube, exposed arms, shorts, and a shirt of an open magma cube.

Slime Battler

A human figure in light blue protective gear, covered in and oozing slime. Eerily, the skin is making the same face as a slime, with slime green eyes.

Slime Glider

A person covered head to toe in slime, also making the same face as a slime, with an actual slime on the back of their head.

Slime Tumbler

A worried looking person drenched in slime from the top, with a light blue shirt, green shorts, and no shoes below.

Spider Battler

A human-like figure in spider-themed armor, with covered eyes, red lips, and exposed arms.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Spider Glider

Similar to the battler, but designed like a cave spider instead of aspider, with a cobweb colored parachute.

Spider Tumbler

A person in a muscle shirt of a cave spider, wearing legwarmers colored like a cave spider, with a helmet shaped like a regular spider.

Villager Battler

An ecstatic looking villager wearing a lit furnace, a barrel, anvil gloves, and what appear to be shoulder pads referencing lava wells in nether fortresses.

Barrels would not be introduced to Minecraft until Village and Pillage, two years later.

Villager Glider

A white-robed villager wearing an enchanting table on their head, with diamond shoulder pads and goggles, and an obsidian colored fanny pack on the back.

White robed villagers would be removed in Village and Pillage.

Villager Tumbler

A gruff looking villager wearing a brown t-shirt, a melon on their head, and using hay bale for pads.

Quotes
“Become a Mini Game legend with this new sporting skin pack! Swoop round Glides tightest tracks in lithe llama-suit, cushion Tumble-based fumbles with fluffy cat pads or don your Guardian get-up to bolster both your Battle ranking and your fashion game.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket EditionSeptember 12, 2017
Added the Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack to the Marketplace.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Added the Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional render of the Cat Battler, Cat Glider and Cat Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Bat Battler, Bat Glider and Bat Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Cow Battler, Cow Glider and Cow Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Elder Guardian Battler, Elder Guardian Glider and Elder Guardian Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Horse Battler, Horse Glider and Horse Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Llama Battler, Llama Glider and Llama Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Magma Cube Battler, Magma Cube Glider and Magma Cube Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Slime Battler, Slime Glider and Slime Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Spider Battler, Spider Glider and Spider Tumbler.



			Promotional render of the Villager Battler, Villager Glider and Villager Tumbler.



			Key art of the skin pack without text.


Promotional images



			Several skins battling.



			Several skins digging.



			Several skins gliding.



			Several skins fighting.


References

 "Mini Game Heroes now on console!"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, June 27, 2017.

Navigation