This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

Mini Agent Mission

Website page

https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/challenges/mini-agent-mission

{
    "title": "Mini Agent Mission",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/challenges/mini-agent-mission",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Mini Agent Mission is a map on Minecraft Education.

Contents

1 Summary
2 Quotes
3 Gallery
4 Navigation

Summary



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

The player will spawn near an agent-like NPC. It will explain the goal of the activity. Then, the player will be prompted to choose between three challenges: The Smart Farming Agent, The Night Guardian Agent, and The Eco-Cleanup Agent.

Quotes
“The Problem: A drought is threatening the village's food supply!
Your Mission: Build an AI agent that can autonomously care for crops by:

Checking if soil is dry
Watering plants when needed
Planting seeds in empty spots
Harvesting ripe crops
Real-World Connection: Learn how AI helps farmers feed the world!„ — Agent“The Problem: Villages are vulnerable to dangers at night!
Your Mission: Create an AI agent that:

Patrols the village after dark
Places torches in dark areas
Rings the bell if danger is spotted
Keeps villagers safe
Real-World Connection: Explore how AI enhances security and safety!„ — Agent“The Problem: Our environment needs protection from litter!
Your Mission: Design an AI agent that:

Collects trash items
Sorts materials into recycling chests
Identifies pollution sources
Keeps spaces clean
Real-World Connection: Discover how AI helps protect our planet!„ — Agent
Gallery



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Navigation