This article is about the Legacy Console Edition mini games.   For the Bedrock Edition third-party servers, see Featured servers.



This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 

Mini games menu as seen on the PlayStation 4 Edition.
Mini games are a variety of modes exclusive to the Legacy Console Edition of Minecraft. Mini games can be played solo, splitscreen on the same console, online, or with another console locally via an ad-hoc connection.‌[Switch & PS Vita  only] The three mini games are Battle, Tumble, and Glide.
Mini games are available on all versions of Legacy Console Edition. However, online play no longer works on the Wii U Edition due to the discontinuation of online services for the Wii U in April 2024.
Prior to each round, all players can freely explore a lobby and interact with various items, such as bows, fishing rods, armor, heads, elytra, and music discs. Any player who wears one of the six heads in the lobby retains that head into the next round.

Contents

1 Lobby
2 Battle
3 Tumble
4 Glide
5 Build Off
6 Achievements
7 Medals
8 History
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Glide

10.1.1 Score Icons
10.1.2 Other

10.2 Battle

11 References
12 Navigation

Lobby
The mini game lobby.
Upon creating or joining a server, the player spawns in the lobby. It is a small "town" in the middle of a superflat world. All players are in adventure mode and are immune to damage (just like in creative mode). When playing with other players, the next game starts within one minute, although the player can create an invite-only game to gain the freedom to explore the lobby.
Exploration
The mini-game lobby is complex. There are many redstone puzzles scattered around. The main collectables and secrets of the lobby are getting the music discs, getting all of the armor sets, the hidden old lobby, and the mob head hunts to get the dragon's head.
Escaping the lobby
In older versions like PlayStation 3, escape was possible with an elytra or fishing rod.​[more information needed] Note that only the winner of the previous round can access the elytra.
The modern lobby can also be escaped by going through the nether portal gate. Sometimes the nether gate blocks (and presumably the water gate blocks, but there is no evidence of those having this issue) can glitch out of existence. Then the player can use an elytra to go down the 1×1 hole, either in the 1×1 space in the area above the barrier, or in one of the 1×1 spaces used for the redstone under the map. However, there are barrier blocks that prevent the player from going any further down. Escaping the map this way can also give the player the "supersonic" achievement.

Battle
Main article: Battle (mini game)
Battle mini game logo.
Battle is a mini game most similar to the popular "Hunger Games" mode on Java Edition servers, where players compete in a "last man standing" or "deathmatch" style game. Battle was added to the Legacy Console Edition on June 21, 2016.

Tumble
Main article: Tumble
Tumble mini game logo.
Tumble is a mini game most similar to the popular "Spleef" mode on Java Edition servers, where players aim to cause others to fall off of an arena by using snowballs, shovels, or other items to mine the ground below them. Tumble was added to the Legacy Console Edition on August 30 and August 31, 2016.

Glide
Main article: Glide (mini game)
Glide mini game logo.
Glide is a mini game where players maneuver through a track while wearing an elytra, aiming to finish in the fastest time or score the most points by flying through colored rings. Glide was added to the Legacy Console Edition on March 28, 2017 (March 29, 2017 for Wii U Edition).

Build Off
Build Off was a planned mini game most similar to the popular "Build Battle" mode on Java Edition servers, where players compete in themed building competitions and vote amongst themselves to select a winner. 4J Studios hinted at the plan for the mini game at their panel at MINECON 2016. The mode was likely cancelled for a variety of reasons, with one known issue being fairness according to former Mojang community manager Helen Zbihlyj. Despite being cancelled, the mini game was partially implemented with calls for music cues, a leaderboard, and other features being present in the game's code and data with the namespace MG04.

Achievements

Icon
Achievement
In-game description
Actual requirements (if different)
Availability
Gamerscore earned (Xbox)
Trophy type (PS)

Xbox
PS
Nintendo

The Student...Win a public Battle mini game.—
YesYesWii U, Switch25GSilver

...has become the MasterWin 3 public Battle mini games in a row.—
YesYesWii U, Switch60GGold

'Tis but a scratchTake 100 damage in a round of public Battle game.—
YesYesWii U, Switch40GSilver

CupidKill 2 players in a round of public Battle mini game using a bow and arrow.—
YesYesWii U, Switch20GBronze

Hunger PainKill a player while you are starving in a Battle mini game.—
YesYesWii U, Switch20GBronze

Mine!Open every chest in a Battle mini game arena in one round.—
YesYesWii U, Switch20GBronze

UnderdogWin a Tumble game whilst on the lowest layer in a Snowball Tumble Mini Game.—
YesYesWii U, Switch15GBronze

HotshotHit a Player with a Snowball while falling into the Lava.—
YesYesWii U, Switch40GSilver

S-No ThrowWin a single round of Snowball Tumble without throwing any Snowballs.—
YesYesWii U, Switch40GSilver

OverlordStay on the top layer while winning a round in a Snowball Tumble Mini Game.—
YesYesWii U, Switch15GBronze

SnowploughPush three Players into Lava using Snowballs in a single public round.—
YesYesWii U, Switch15GBronze

Snow StormHit a single Player with 25 Snowballs in a single public round.—
YesYesWii U, Switch40GSilver
Medals
Main article: /Medals
Medals are special titles that a player is given in the mini game's final screen based off of their performance in any round of the game.

History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU36CU251.281.281.28Patch 71.0.1
Added Battle mini game.TU39CU271.311.311.31Patch 10
Disabled "Take Everything" in the lobby.TU41CU301.331.331.33Patch 11
Added Tumble mini game.
Introduced a "vote to kick" system for mini games.
When there are more than three players in a public game, a player will be kicked from the game when they have received three votes.
This scales down when there are less players.TU42CU321.351.351.35Patch 12
Removed vote to kick system.TU51CU411.441.441.44Patch 201.0.3
Added Glide mini game.
Added a new lobby.
Trivia
There was once a feature planned to allow alliances and teams in the battle mini game, however this idea was scrapped.[1]
There was once a toggle-able altimeter planned for the glide mini game, however this idea was scrapped.[2]
The images for both of the above are present in the files but are unused
Gallery
Glide
Score Icons



			Blue



			Yellow



			Green



			Grey


Other



			Gold Medal Icon



			Gold Clock



			The unused Altimeter



			Altimeter


Battle



			Heart Shield Icon



			Graduation Cap Icon



			Wrist Watch Icon [verify]



			Wooden Spoon Icon



			Unused Alliance icon


References

 "Announcement of Discontinuation of Online Services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software"     – Nintendo Support.

 https://youtu.be/hGUeli77sdI?t=3326

 https://youtu.be/ccB0-mPFplI?t=65

Navigation