For other types of minor characters, see Character (disambiguation).



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Exterminator



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Throughout several series of books, many minor characters appear. These are characters with names and personalities, but no sufficient depth.

Contents

1 Max Brooks' trilogy

1.1 King Graham

2 Minecraft: The End

2.1 Beigas
2.2 Ipari
2.3 Lopp
2.4 Teg
2.5 Vegg
2.6 Wakas

3 Minecraft: The Voyage

3.1 Caravan agent
3.2 Coal, Emerald, and Lapis
3.3 Dark Ulric
3.4 Hodey's sweetheart
3.5 Innkeeper
3.6 Lost Horde of Ubnar
3.7 Mrs. Guinevere Taney's husband
3.8 Mulraven Bandits
3.9 Priest-Kings of Dahver-Nod
3.10 Royal Twins of Far Nalur
3.11 Ulias

4 Minecraft: The Shipwreck

4.1 A.J. and Gus
4.2 Rose

5 Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles

5.1 Dante
5.2 Exterminator
5.3 Fantasies
5.4 Giaco
5.5 Mr. Mellohi

6 Dark Horse Comics

6.1 Catman
6.2 Dueling skeletons
6.3 Free Comic Book Day
6.4 Raided villagers

7 Heart of Cobblestone

7.1 Foreign professionals

8 Gallery
9 Navigation

Max Brooks' trilogy
King Graham
During Minecraft: The Island, Guy discovers a painting, Graham. He immediately recognizes it as being the main character of the game King's Quest, faintly remembering it for reasons beyond him.

Minecraft: The End
Beigas
During the Endmoot, Beigas interrupts Ipari to warn that when the humans arrive, they will wreak havoc. Beigas compares them to lava.

Ipari
During the Endmoot, Ipari states that time in the Overworld functions differently than in the End, and that humans could arrive at any time.

Lopp
Hubunit Lopp invites Mo to be part of an endstacking, a group of Endermen devoted to working on a task. This offer is rejected.

Teg
Teg is Kan's primary hubunit, whose role is to guide Kan's upbringing. When Karshen searches the End ship for Kan, Teg assists in the search after some time. Kan eventually reveals himself to both hubunits.

Vegg
Vegg is a prominent strategy master of the End, who proposes that the Endermen were not the original creators of the End during the Endmoot. This begins a small argument.

Wakas
An enderman shepherd who lives in the End. During a meeting at the central island, they mention that the End "is the land of our people" and that Endermen "have lived here since the beginning."

Minecraft: The Voyage
Caravan agent



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Coal, Emerald, and Lapis



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Coal, Emerald and Lapis are the names of Stax' cats.

Dark Ulric



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Hodey's sweetheart



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Innkeeper



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Lost Horde of Ubnar



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Mrs. Guinevere Taney's husband



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Mulraven Bandits



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Priest-Kings of Dahver-Nod



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

The Priest-Kings of Dahver-Nod are an organization that imprisoned Ramoa, who was ultimately rescued by Hejira.

Royal Twins of Far Nalur
The Royal Twins of Far Nalur were two significant figures in the territory of Far Nalur. At one point, before the story began, the twins were kidnapped by an unknown party. The twins were eventually rescued by Abel under the conditions that he would remain exempt from taxes until his next birthday. The story became a popular legend, mentioned by Brubbs as he talked to the party.

Ulias



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Ulias is a member of Mr. Barnacle's crew aboard his vessel. Ulias never crosses paths with the main party.

Minecraft: The Shipwreck
A.J. and Gus



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

A.J. and Gus are two of Shark's friends, who frequently accompany him on excursions.

Rose



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Rose is Pattie's mother.

Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
Dante
Dante was a kind friend of Morgan Mercado who moved away. Dante first showed him Minecraft and he created a skyscraper. Morgan found that a gargoyale in the build had a block of gravel rather than cobblestone. Morgan attempted to fix it but couldn't. Dante told him that he had set it so that only he could edit blocks.

Exterminator
During the events of Night of the Bats!, Woodsword Middle School became overrun with bats, who ended up taking over the gymnasium. In spite of Ms. Minerva and her class objecting, an exterminator was called over by the school board to kill them. He is depicted as a middle aged man wearing a jumpsuit, a pilot's hat, and a strange vacuum-like device on his back, similar to the proton pack from the Ghostbusters franchise. He arrived on Saturday, driving up in a van decorated with creatures marked with red slashes, but was quickly told the situation has been resolved peacefully. Frustrated, the exterminator drives off without a gig.

Fantasies
In many books, there are several, usually brief, fantasies done by characters. Upon enrolling in Woodsword Middle School, Ash was reminded of a fantasy castle, imagining a swarm of bats flying out of it. These are drawn differently from the bats in the following book. In Last Block Standing!, when Ms. Minerva asks what causes rainbows, Jodi fantasizes about leprechauns, and proceeds to give them as an answer. In Dungeon Crawl!, while speculating on the source of the Evoker King's powers, Jodi speculates it could be a unicorn mob, or an "AI Genie."
Throughout the series, there's a running gag of characters making assumptions about Doc Culpepper, usually outlandish and unfounded. Upon first being introduced, it was proposed she might have come from the future, losing a war against evil robots and emerging through a time portal. In reality, she drove to the school in a minivan. In Crack in the Code!, Jodi, while under the codename Agent J, suggestions that she is in the process of "replacing the librarians with cyborgs." While doing this, she imagines a robot working at the library, not a cyborg.

Giaco
Giaco is a student at Woodsword Middle School who participates in the coral jewelry trend. Giaco informs Harper Houston that there is a website on which coral jewelry can be ordered and purchase. This irritates Harper, who is concerned about the environmental impact of the trend.

Mr. Mellohi
Mr. Mellohi is the principal's assistance. When trying to figure out if the Evoker King goes to Woodsword Middle School, Jodi asks him what room Morgan Mercado had detention in the day before under the pretense of looking for his lost science textbook. Mr. Mellohi states that he is not permitted to inform her.
Mr. Mellohi's name could be a tribute to the music disc mellohi.

Dark Horse Comics
Catman
Within the opening of Minecraft: Volume 1, it's established that series protagonist Tyler is a fan of a comic book character named Catman. He has a poster of the character on his wall, which took priority while unboxing, as well as a comic book and an action figure. Although the name and association with comics resembles Batman, the character appears to be an anthropomorphic cat with ripped shorts instead of a human in a costume.

Dueling skeletons



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Rest of appearances

Throughout each of the issues, several characters are shown to be fans of a media franchise called Skeleton Duels. In this series, skeletons duel, during all of the seventeen known issues. Steph finds this formula monotonous, but Ethan is reluctant to question the status quo. Later, Evan is shown to be a big fan of the series, hanging a picture of it on his wall beside a wither skeleton.

Free Comic Book Day
During the events of the story Changes, a young girl named Penny discovers she has "Minecraft powers." This is apparently a form of puberty, or at least similar to it, Penny remarking that her mother had told her to expect changes. In spite of the happenstance, she proceeds to go to school, and tries to search out her friend Phillip. While looking for him, several people are seen, including students and what appear to be teachers.

Raided villagers
During The Witch and the Pillager, several villagers are depicted being victimized by Darnell and Denise. The story opens on an unprofessional villager working on a house while Denise intends to attack him with a potion of slowness or weakness, only for Darnell to show up and shoot him. He is promptly poisoned, but manages to escape while they bicker. Later, the two decide to engage in a raid on a walled village, just as three villagers partake in a conversation. One, named Jack, remarks that his son has been turned into a zombie, which the person he speaks to relates with.
Several days later, Denise tries to invade another village, and vents about the romantic tension between her and Darnell. A villager she had previously attacked gives her honest advice on the situation and says she should open up to her feelings, which she promptly kills him for, throwing a splash potion to his head while it burns.

Heart of Cobblestone
Foreign professionals
In the short story Saved by the Bell, Rochelle goes on a quest to find a new bell. To do this, she seeks out a weaponsmith in a foreign village, hoping to trade coal for emeralds, but continually runs into issues across several. Unlike other media, these professionals are not villagers, but what appear to be humans; villagers still appear as background characters in other scenes.
During the story, she first goes to a taiga village, meeting with what appears to be a nitwit, wearing a green tunic, yellow poncho, and spiky black hair similar to Farmer Cobb. The second stop is a snowy plains village, with a villager wearing a bulky blue winter coat, yellow scarf, brown pants, and gray gloves. The third is a desert village, with a professional with tan skin, a muscle shirt, ragged pants, and a jacket tied around their waist. The final professional is from a savanna, with brown hair, an orange baseball cap, and a ragged brown jacket on a white shirt.

Gallery



			The Exterminator















			Catman merchandise in Tyler's house














Navigation