This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.




This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Throughout the various Minecraft books, many minor locations appear. These are locations that have been given a name and geography, but not significant development.

Contents

1 Max Brooks' trilogy

1.1 Jungle
1.2 Amethyst geode

2 Minecraft: The End

2.1 Terminus

3 Minecraft: The Voyage

3.1 Ice field
3.2 Desolation Bay
3.3 Sea of Sorrows
3.4 Omphalos

4 Minecraft: The Dragon

4.1 Great Rift
4.2 Mountain

5 Castle Redstone

5.1 Ocean Monument
5.2 Forest
5.3 Witch's Hut

6 Journey to the Ancient City

6.1 Central End island
6.2 End city

7 Navigation

Max Brooks' trilogy
Jungle
Located between Summer's mountain and Guy's village, the jungle features pandas, parrots, and a jungle temple, the latter of which the party stayed in for one evening. Phantoms also attacked the party at one point.

Amethyst geode
While exploring in a cave, Guy and Summer find an amethyst geode. Guy expresses joy at the discovery and suggests the group make this their new home. Summer declines. The party crafts a spyglass and departs the way they came.

Minecraft: The End
Terminus
Terminus is a holy island in the End. Kraj and Eresha have an argument there, and the latter is thrown off the island.

Minecraft: The Voyage
Ice field
An icy biome near the Stonecutter Penninsula. Inhabited by many polar bears, who attack the party, it is the first location the characters travelled to.

Desolation Bay
A large desert, with a bay on the coast. Shortly after setting off, Fouge Tempro and his associates build a small base out of a stone tower in Desolation Bay. Shortly after, the protagonist arrives and stays in the tower, which he repaired, for three nights. Kelp grows off the coast, which served as a food source for Stax Stonecutter.

Sea of Sorrows
An ocean, bordered by Desolation Bay to the west and Tumbles Harbor to the east. There is an ocean monument which Stax Stonecutter stumbles across, bright enough to be visible as a light from sea level, and inhabited by guardians, also referred to as the "Old Ones".

Omphalos
Located east of the large mountain, the Omphalos is another term for the "origin point". Hejira believes a certain ruin to be connected to the Omphalos. This name is also used in Greek mythology to refer to the same concept.

Minecraft: The Dragon
Great Rift
The Great Rift is a ravine an hour's walk from Sienna Dunes. Many exposed ores are seen there, as well as a half-buried desert pyramid.

Mountain
Long ago, Zetta's grandmother went to a mountain to live her life in solitude. Later, the party would initially store the Ender dragon on a cave on the side of the mountain, with a cobblestone barricade, but the dragon quickly escapes. The mountain is known to be grassy and has a field of flowers with multiple bees.

Castle Redstone
Ocean Monument
While traversing an ocean, one party member comes across an ocean monument. The group does not loot it due to the danger posed by guardians, who attack the group's boat.

Forest
Offshore of the ocean is a forest biome. There are many large but abandoned buildings, and quite a bit of redstone mechanics connecting them.

Witch's Hut
During their adventure, the group gets trapped by a witch in a swamp after being led there by a wolf, later named Good Boy. They break free and kill the witch, with Good Boy delivering the final blow.

Journey to the Ancient City
Central End island
The initial point of arrival by the party in the End. Opal killed the ender dragon some time ago. After arriving, the group quickly goes through an End gateway.

End city
After going through the gateway, the party loots an End city with an End ship. The raid goes roughly, but is still successful.

Navigation