This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Legacy Console Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Moana Character Pack

Skins

25

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

BE & LCE: January 30, 2018
3DS: November 20, 2018

Website page

Moana Character Pack in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Moana Character Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "25",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE & LCE:''' January 30, 2018\n*'''3DS:''' November 20, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=f292e456-d57d-43c6-a183-782b868be50b Moana Character Pack in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Moana Character Pack is a skin pack consisting of 25 skins of characters from the popular Disney animated fantasy film Moana.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Bedrock Edition
4.2 Legacy Console Edition
4.3 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 See also
8 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Moana

Main protagonist of the film, the daughter of a Polynesian chief who is chosen by the ocean itself to recover a mystical artifact, voiced by actress Auliʻi Cravalho.

Maui

Deuteragonist of the film, based off the mythical figure Māui in Polynesian mythology, voiced by actor and wrestler Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson.

Tamatoa

Secondary antagonist within the film, a ginormous crab who hoards gold and other valuables, voiced by comedian and musician Jemaine Clement.

Pua

Moana's pet pig, who is controversially absent from much of the film.

Gramma Tala

Eccentric storytelling and grandmother of Moana, voiced by actress and director Rachel House.

Heihei

Comic relief chicken character, voiced by Alan Tudyk.

Ocean

An anthropomorphized rendition of the ocean, representing the supernatural presence of it in Moana.

Sina

Mother of Moana, voiced by Nicole Scherzinger.

Chief Tui

Father of Moana and chief of Motunui, voiced by Temuera Morrison.

Matai Vasa

Posthumous character, the ancient leader of Moana's tribe, voiced by musician Opetaia Foaʻi.

Kakamora 1

Major antagonists of the film, the Kakamora are coconut-like pirates who come into conflict with Moana.

Kakamora 2

Kakmora 3

Kakamora Chief

Villager Female

Nondescript character, possibly based off of an incidental.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Voyager Female

Villager Male

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Voyager Male

Voyager Moana

Half-Shark Maui

Maui partially transformed into a shark.

Spirit Gramma Tala

Spirit of Gramma Tala.

Fish Monster

Minor creature featured in the film, attempting to consume Moana during her time in Lalotai.

Officially known as the "Frog Monster."

Sloth Monster

Minor creature featured in the film, also hailing from Lalotai.

Hawk Maui

Maui transformed into a hawk.

Bioluminescent Tamatoa

Tamatoa as he appears in his musical number, "Shiny."

Quotes
“Set sail with Moana, Maui & all the crew from Motunui. How far will you go in Minecraft with this adventurous character set? You’re welcome!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos

History
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionJanuary 30, 2018
The Moana Character Pack is added to the Marketplace.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU62CU521.661.661.66Patch 311.0.12
Added the Moana Character Pack.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.8.13
Added the Moana Character Pack.March 27, 2023
The skin pack is no longer purchaseable due to closure of the Nintendo 3DS eShop.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional renders of Moana, Maui, and Tamatoa.



			 Promotional renders of Pua, Gramma Tala, and Heihei.



			Promotional renders of Ocean, Sina, and Chief Tui.



			Promotional renders of Matai Vasa, and two Kakamora.



			Promotional renders of two Kakamora and Villager Female.



			Promotional renders of Voyager Female, Villager Male, and Voyager Male



			Promotional renders of Voyager Moana, Half-Shark Maui, and Spirit Gramma Tala.



			Promotional renders of Fish Monster, Sloth Monster, Hawk Maui, and Bioluminescent Tamatoa.


Promotional images



			The Kakamoras' ships.



			Moana evading the Sloth Monster in Lalotai.



			Tamatoa on a pile of glowstone.



			Maui, Moana, Heihei, and Ocean near the ocean.



			Moana on her boat.



			Several of the village characters.



			Several characters on large boats.


References

 "Moana and Xbox Characters Come to Minecraft!"     by Marsh Davies  – Minecraft.net, January 30, 2018.

See also
Moana 2
Navigation