This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Moana 2

Map maker(s)

Starfish Studios, FlameStreem

Price

 1,510 Minecoins

Release date

November 12, 2024

Tags

Exploration
Island
Movie
Animation

Genre(s)

Action
Action-Adventure

Players

Single player, Multiplayer (1-10)

Website page

Moana 2 Map in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Moana Sails into Minecraft"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Moana 2",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Starfish Studios, FlameStreem",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 1,510 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 12, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Exploration\n* Island\n* Movie\n* Animation",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Action\n*Action-Adventure",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player, Multiplayer (1-10)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=495bb1fc-3b99-4426-85d4-f7effe5eadea Moana 2 Map in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/moana-sails-into-minecraft \"Moana Sails into Minecraft\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Moana2 Screenshot 0.jpg"
    ]
}

Key art
Moana 2 is a Marketplace map and skin pack made to promote the film Moana 2, developed by Starfish Studios.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Spawn
1.2 Island of Motunui

1.2.1 Caverns of the Ancestors

1.2.1.1 Canoe Course

1.2.2 Loto's Workshop

1.3 Kakamora

1.3.1 Kakamora's Barge

2 Skins
3 Quotes
4 Videos
5 History
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Official artwork
7.2 Promotional  images

8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 Navigation

Summary
The map is an expansive world (which takes after the first film) with many challenges, tasks and adventures to explore, with Moana as the guide.

Spawn
The player first spawns on the island of Te Fiti, surrounded by two towering, mossy walls. Behind the player is a green, swirling portal-like heart and small candles. Vegetation is everywhere as vines and leaf blocks trail across the walls. A golden sand path is trailed ahead with the walls, which act like barriers, lead towards a boat where the player can visit Moana and the Island of Motunui.

Island of Motunui
A cutscene first plays when the player visits to the Island of Motunui for the first time as Moana welcomes them with Heihei, Pua and a small village child.
This island features many paradisiacal flora and ginormous houses made out of straw. Coconut trees flourish throughout the island with waterfalls, sandy beaches and green, luscious grass dotted around.
By interacting with Moana, she can help the player learn how to sail in the Cavern of the Ancestors.

Caverns of the Ancestors
Signs are placed along the golden sand path leading to the cave. A golden ray of sunlight shines at the entrance as the player witnesses ahead that they are inside a waterfall with vines hanging above.
Once entered, the game notifies the player to bang the drum, cueing a cutscene to happen which Moana sails inside on her canoe. Moana expresses how the island's population were ecstatic that the ocean could finally be explored again so she built a canoe course to teach her people to sail, including the player.
Another cutscene happens as it previews what the course looks like with text describing what kind of obstacle exist.

Canoe Course
The player can participate in a sailing minigame to progress the linear storyline. It is a free-for-all genre against 5 other CPUs with a scoreboard showing the player's current position. Natural obstacles such as land masses split the river path in two to create unique pathways in finishing. Water ramps and wind (shown with an floating wooden arch and swirling circle) are useful tools to gain speed and triumph. Water geysers are present unlocking secret shortcuts and used during the main course. Two laps must be done to complete the entire minigame.

Loto's Workshop
After completing the canoe course, Moana encourages the player to visit Loto's Workshop in order to obtain their own canoe. Signs guide the way to the workshop imaged by a wooden mallet strung together with plants.
Once at Loto's Workshop, the player is invited by Loto to choose a blueprint hanging from the wall in order to choose a design for their boat. This can be changed at any time.

Kakamora
After selecting a design, the player talks to Chief Tui to sail towards the kakamora (hostile coconut foes) with Moana. A compass navbar is summoned on the top of the screen with an image of a kakamora indicating the location of their barge. If the kakamora is on the left, then they are towards the left; if it is in the centre, then they are directly ahead of the player.

Kakamora's Barge
When the canoe is close to the barge, a cutscene plays, displaying the humongous barge and the sounds of drums. The leader of the kakamoras is shown to be dancing to a row of musicians.
Once on the boat, the player is tasked to destroy 6 pillars and are given an oar. The oar has a charge-up ability to deal immense knockback. Wooden boxes and décor litter across including bamboo signs to help accomplish the objective with trampolines to maneuvre around.

Skins
There are 30 skins available which can be used as part of the package.

Name

Image

Description

Notes

Moana (Moana 2)

Moana, the main character of the movie, has overarching hair from both sides of her head with a blue pendant. She is wrapped around traditional Polynesian clothing, with a red top and a whiteish-yellow skirt.

Maui (Moana 2)

Maui, a demi-God, is a large character, outbound of the traditional size of a skin, wears a bone necklace with only a leaf skirt as visible tattoos are drawn all over his body.

Heihei (Moana 2)

Hei Hei is a humanoid bantam rooster, featuring custom geometry with 3×3 wide eyes either side of the head and a red wattle and comb. It's a colorful character with a bright yellow head and a gradient of green to turquoise body.

Heihei can be called "Hei Hei" too.

Pua (Moana 2)

Pua is a humanoid, kunekune piglet with a pink snout and husks. Ears pop out on either side of its head as white fur predominates the entire skin with splotches of gray on either side of the arm.

It is Moana's pet pig.

Chief Tui (Moana 2)

Father to Moana, he is chief of the village, equipping the red-feathered headband, signaling him as a respected chief. He dawns a red armband with tattoos predominantly on his arm. Additionally, he wears a dark-red skirt with a leaf foot bracelet.

Sina (Moana 2)

Sina wears a white, flowery headband with her hair neatly shaped. She wears two brownish bracelets and dark magenta overalls with complementary white elements.

Simea (Moana 2)

Simea has a child-like appearance with wide tsurime eyes. Her hair is tied together in bunches.

Gramma Tala (Moana 2)

Old in appearance, Gramma Tala has white hair, common to the elderly, with a pink flower acting as a bobble. Similar to Moana, she wears a blue pendant with pink overalls and a white skirt over it.

Moni (Moana 2)

Moni is a muscular character with his head in a pony tail. He features a smirk and a worn-out white skirt.

Kele (Moana 2)

Kele is a senile character with an arched-like back. His eyes are two pixels wide, signifying his lack of vision. He styles his white hair in a bob cut and wears a green tunic with an armband in the same colour.

Kotu (Moana 2)

Kotu is a side-villain in the films. It is a humanoid coconut with a bone mask. Purple arms and legs stretch out as it wears a pouch full of arrows.

Loto (Moana 2)

Loto has afro hair with a yellow highlight. She has two-pixel-tall eyes with a hammer inside her belt. She wears yellow trousers.

Tautai Vasa (Moana 2)

Ocean (Moana 2)

An anthropomorphized rendition of the ocean, representing the supernatural presence of it in Moana.

Sloth Monster (Moana 2)

Tamatoa (Moana 2)

Tamatoa, a crazy gold-loving massive crab, has Xbox joystick eyes and a purple shell. His blue claws hold mighty strength as it is much bigger than the rest of his arm as gold trails down all over his body.

Bioluminescent Tamatoa (Moana 2)

Bioluminescent Tamatoa is an alternate version of Tamatoa with pink and light blue features instead. These features have a neon glow effect with his teeth being whitened and almost-crazed look to him.

Maui Giant Hawk (Moana 2)

Maui Giant Hawk is an alternate form of Maui as one of his transformations. It's a brown ginormous eagle with a tail reaching out of the back. He has yellow feet with sharp claws.

Maui Half Shark (Moana 2)

Maui Half Shark is another rendition of Maui with his upper half being a shark with beady eyes, fins and a snout. His lower, human half is separated by a leaf skirt tied with a rope.

Moana Voyager (Moana 2)

Moana Voyager is an alternate form of Moana. She still wears her iconic blue pendant and hair. Instead, she bores a white shirt and a pink dress with a white ankle bracelet.

Spirit Gramma Tala (Moana 2)

Spirit Gramma Tala is an alternate form of Gramma Tala but blue. She reflects the colors of the ocean in which she guides Moana to safety.

Te Fiti (Moana)

Te Fiti is a goddess with angelic beauty and nature. Pink and white flowers scatter all over her skin as luscious grass comes out her head like hair. A crown of flowers surround her head further accentuating her beauty.

Te Fiti and Te Kā are the same goddess.

Te Kā (Moana)

Te Kā is the epitome of fury and destruction. Volcanic ash is erupting from her head as molten lava spew from underneath. A void of white eyes show dismay and anger as an ancient rune is embedded on her chest.

Te Fiti and Te Kā are the same goddess.

Blobfish (Moana 2)

Blobfish is merely a simple creature with green, slimy skin and a large snout. It's cute by appearance and a helpful friend. A dorsal fin runs down the head as a caudal fin spits out at the bottom.

Kakamora 1 (Moana 2)

Kakamora 1 is a humanoid coconut enemy of Moana. It has a cone-shaped hat made out of a shell. Purple arms and legs stretch out from the coconut as it wears a couple of green bracelets.

Kakamora 2 (Moana 2)

Kakamora 2 is a humanoid coconut enemy of Moana. It has a mask with red blushes ad white eyeliner. Purple arms and legs stretch out from the coconut as it wears a couple of white bracelets.

Motunui Villager 1 (Moana 2)

Motunui Villager 2 (Moana 2)

Child 1 (Moana 2)

Child 1 is a skin with smaller geometry due to his young age. He's a boy with a necklace and short hair with a white skirt and leather pants.

Child 2 (Moana 2)

Child 2 is a skin with smaller geometry due to her young age. She's a girl with two orange bobbles in brunches and wears a white crop top. Additionally, she has an orange, lopsided skirt.

Quotes
“Learn the ways of the ocean with Moana and friends! Explore iconic locations, meet familiar and new characters, and relive moments from both films. Embark on quests around the island while you ride the waves in your canoe, battle the Kakamora, and defeat the Tamatoa with Maui.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos

































History
Bedrock EditionNovember 12, 2024
The Moana 2 world and skin pack is added to the Marketplace.November 18, 2024
A giveaway was hosted by Starfish Studios for 5 free codes.
Trivia
The Moana 2 map came out over two weeks before the release of the movie the map is based on.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Alternate key art



			Pua and Hei Hei on a beach.



			A popup notification that promotes the map.



			Render of the character Tamatoa.



			Ditto.


Promotional  images



			Panorama for the map



			Under the "Take A Tour!" section.



			Ditto. Moana and two other players sailing towards a kakamora ship.



			Ditto. Moana and two other players sailing towards a kakamora ship.



			Ditto. Two players fighting against Tamatoa



			Ditto. A water geyser pushing a boat upwards.



			Ditto. Maui and three other players opening the entrance to Tamatoa.



			Ditto. The player fighting against the kakamoras.



			Ditto. Moana characters and players inside a building as Loto welcomes you inside.



			Ditto. Moni and Kele teaching the children about a folklore story.


See also
Moana Character Pack, a skin pack based off the original film
Trial Chamber Legends, another map created by Starfish Studios
Notes

 Worked on a couple models: Maui's hawk, door to the realm of the monsters, a big drum in the kakamora and some of the skins.

References

 "I had the privilege to work on some game models for this. Go check it out! 🐚"  – @FlameStreem  on X (formerly Twitter), November 12, 2024

Navigation