This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Mod Power

Other names

Cursed Mod

Classification

Inherited meta-capability

Symptoms

Mod Rune

Affects

Supernatural enhancements
Reality manipulation

Causes

Hereditary

Treatment

Unknown

First appearance

Nico's Adventure Begins!

{
    "title": "Mod Power",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* Cursed Mod",
            "label": "Other names"
        },
        {
            "field": "Inherited meta-capability",
            "label": "Classification"
        },
        {
            "field": "Mod Rune",
            "label": "Symptoms"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Supernatural enhancements\n* Reality manipulation",
            "label": "Affects"
        },
        {
            "field": "Hereditary",
            "label": "Causes"
        },
        {
            "field": "Unknown",
            "label": "Treatment"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Nico's Adventure Begins! article, displayed as Nico's Adventure Begins!)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Mod Power.png"
    ]
}

Mod Powers (Japanese: MOD能力, Hepburn: Moddo Nōryoku?), also called Cursed Mods (呪いのMOD, Noroi no Moddo?) by Gray, are intrinsic special abilities appearing in Minecraft: The Manga. They appear to be hereditary, allowing the users to manipulate the world around them in ways impossible within typical iterations of Minecraft.

Contents

1 Symptoms
2 Types

2.1 Imagination
2.2 Zombie Curse
2.3 Growth
2.4 Evolution
2.5 Blizzard
2.6 Mirror Seed
2.7 Mob Tamer
2.8 Block Piercer
2.9 Clairvoyance
2.10 Replication
2.11 Cat King
2.12 Barrier Block
2.13 Curve Ball
2.14 Inferno
2.15 Tenacity
2.16 Slimification
2.17 Speed Star
2.18 Arcane Gambit
2.19 Colossus
2.20 The King's Mod
2.21 Teleport Command
2.22 Enlargement
2.23 Power Amplification
2.24 Forced Fusion
2.25 One Block

3 Gallery
4 References
5 Navigation

Symptoms
Those affected by Mod Powers have Mod Runes (MODの紋章, Moddo no Monshō?) somewhere on their bodies, which differ in appearance and placement for each ability.



			Imagination's Mod Rune, located on the back of the right hand.



			The Zombie Curse's Mod Rune, located on the upper left arm.



			Growth's Mod Rune, located on the back.



			Evolution's Mod Rune, located on the center of the torso.



			Blizzard's Mod Rune, located over the left eye.



			Mirror Seed's Mod Rune, located on the right arm.



			Mob Tamer's Mod Rune, located above the right eye.



			Block Piercer's Mod Rune, located on the upper right arm.



			Clairvoyance's Mod Rune, located on the left pupil.



			Replication's Mod Rune, located on the stomach.



			Cat King's Mod Rune, located on the back.



			Cat King's Mod Rune, located on the right arm.



			Curve Ball's Mod Rune, located on the legs (tentacles).



			Inferno's Mod Rune, located on the forehead.



			Tenacity's Mod Rune, located on the face.



			Slimification's Mod Rune, located on the stomach.



			Speed Star's Mod Rune, located on the cheek.



			Arcane Gambit's Mod Rune, located on the right pointer finger.


Types
Imagination
Imagination (創造力, Sōzō-ryoku?), used by Nico and Icco White, allows the user to craft in variable sized crafting grids, even without the use of a crafting table. In addition to normal items (such as a wooden sword), it can be used to craft items invented by the user; due to the versatility of what it creates, it can even be used to mimic enchantments. Both Nico and Icco have been shown to create various things:

Nico's creations

File:ObjectSprite ultra-long-stone-sword.pngUltra-Long Stone Sword
File:ObjectSprite wooden-whirlwind-shuriken.pngWooden Whirlwind Shuriken
A giant bucket, crafted in a 5×5 grid with four iron ingots on either side and three at the bottom.
File:ObjectSprite zombie-counter-trap.pngZombie Counter Trap
A giant diamond shield, crafted by filling all but four slots in a 5×5 crafting grid with diamonds to create a skull shape. Nico used it in his battle against Yamabuki, allowing Gray to barely shoot the ninja using his bow.
Ultra-Fine Iron Wire
A fishing rod with a doll of himself as a lure, crafted with a fishing rod and two logs, one diagonally below the rod and the other below the first log. Nico used it to lure Dylan's brother, recently turned into a drowned, to the water's surface.
Water armor, crafted by forming a chestplate with water buckets. When worn, it resembles water floating around the user. Nico used it to save Phoenix when he fell into his village’s lava pit.
File:ObjectSprite ultra-long-iron-sword.pngUltra-Long Iron Sword
File:ObjectSprite blast-blade.pngBlast Blade
Giant Snowball
File:ObjectSprite hammer-of-destruction.pngHammer of Destruction
Artificial Sun
File:ObjectSprite cutting-iron-fist.pngCutting Iron Fist
File:ObjectSprite tasty-cobblestone-block.pngTasty Cobblestone Block
File:ObjectSprite halberd.pngHalberd
Exploding boots, crafted by adding gunpowder under his boots. When worn, they allow the user to create mini explosions beneath their feet to propel them forward, allowing them to temporarily keep up with an enderman's teleporting.
File:ObjectSprite chain-sickle.pngChain Sickle
File:ObjectSprite five-fold-sword.pngFive-Fold Sword
File:ObjectSprite frostgate.pngFrostgate
File:ObjectSprite giant-spyglass.pngGiant Spyglass
Deca-Lightning Rod
File:ObjectSprite titan's-blazing-sword.pngTitan's Blazing Sword
File:ObjectSprite slime-whip.pngSlime Whip
File:ObjectSprite rock-spear.pngRock Spear
File:ObjectSprite rocket-boots.pngRocket Boots

Icco's creations

File:ObjectSprite obsidian-twin-blades.pngObsidian Twin Blades
File:ObjectSprite cactus-blast.pngCactus Blast
Exploding arrows, which he would give to Owl to use
File:ObjectSprite sword-of-light.pngSword of Light
The size of the crafting grid that each person can use is defined by the level of the Mod Power. With Imagination I, a 5×5 crafting grid can be used, while Imagination II grants a 6×6 crafting grid. Additionally, users of Imagination can combine their crafting grids to form larger, rectangular grids. Both Nico and Icco have access to Imagination II, though when Nico first awakens his Mod Power he is limited to Imagination I.

Zombie Curse
The Zombie Curse (ゾンビ化の呪い, Zonbi-ka no Noroi?) is a Mod Power that transforms people into zombies, in both body and mind. Gray and his village are afflicted by it.

Growth
Growth (成長期, Seichō-ki?) is a Mod Power that allows the user to become stronger, more intelligent, and larger the more creatures they eat. It was used by a Giant Spider that attacked Carhon Village, eating enough of the village's livestock to grow to 30 times the size of an average spider and to gain enough intelligence for basic speech.

Evolution
Evolution (道化しんか, Shinka?) is a Mod Power used by Navy. It grants superior intelligence that rivals or surpasses that of humans, as well as extremely strong legs and blast protection, allowing them to survive explosions unharmed.

Blizzard
Blizzard (吹雪, Fubuki?) is a Mod Power used by the Blizzard Stray. It creates a constant blizzard around the user, spanning many kilometers.

Mirror Seed
Mirror Seed (コピーシード, Kopī Shīdo?) is a Mod Power used by Don Gold. By touching others' Mod Runes, the user can create a seed that grants their Mod Power for 10 minutes when eaten.
Don Gold has used Mirror Seed to copy the following Mod Powers:

Iron Nugget Gun (鉄快弾, Tetsukai-dan?): The ability to shoot iron nuggets.
Mob Tamer
Mob Tamer (魔物使い, Mamono Tsukai?) is a Mod Power used by Hyena. It allows the user to control any mob they can see, provided the mob is weaker than themselves; in Hyena's case, this includes Zombies and Skeletons. Due to the user's control over the mobs, they seem very resistant to damage, though they actually just ignore any damage they incur to prioritize the user's orders.

Block Piercer
Block Piercer (ブロック貫通, Burokku Kantsū?) is a Mod Power that allows the user to instantly punch through any block, even those that are generally unbreakable. It is used by Platinum.
When attacking through an iron wall created by Nico, Platinum refers to her punch as Iron Punch (アイアンパンチ, Aian Panchi?).

Clairvoyance
Clairvoyance (千里眼, Senrigan?) is a Mod Power that allows the user to see anywhere in the world that they've been before. It also grants the user the ability to see through walls, floors, and other matter, though the extent of it is limited. It is used by Owl.

Replication
Replication (増殖, Zōshoku?) is a Mod Power that allows the user to replicate themselves endlessly. It is used by the Replicating Silverfish who, due to their limited intelligence, replicating themselves into a swarm that was stuck constantly searching for more food to feed itself.

Cat King
Cat King (猫の王, Neko no Ō?) is a Mod Power that grants its users heightened senses and super strength. It is used by Hunter, a member of Don Gold's Crew.

Barrier Block
Barrier Block (バリアブロック, Baria Burokku?) is a Mod Power that allows its user to create barriers at will. It is used by Ruby, a member of Don Gold's Crew.
While Barrier Block is generally impossible to avoid due to barriers' unbreakable nature, this can be nullified by Block Piercer.
Ruby has one named technique, Ghost Cage (ゴーストケージ, Gōsuto Kēji?), in which she suddenly surrounds an opponent with barriers.

Curve Ball
Curve Ball (変化球, Henkakyū?) is a Mod Power that allows its user to control the trajectory of long-range attacks. It was used by the Curve-Ball Ghast.

Inferno
Inferno (超高温, Chō Kōon?) is a Mod Power that raises the body temperature of its user to extreme temperatures, even hotter than lava. It was used by the Blue-Flame Blaze, and named by Platinum.

Tenacity
Tenacity (頑強, Gankyō?) is a Mod Power used by a Monster Spawner. It causes the Spawner to function in any light level, spawn monsters extremely fast, and be nigh-unbreakable, even able to resist Platinum's Block Piercer. The only known ways to counter the Mod Power are by using the Sword of Light, which temporarily halts spawning until it breaks, or the Titan's Blazing Sword, which is capable of destroying the Spawner entirely.

Slimification
Slimification (スライム化, Suraimu-ka?) is a Mod Power used by Big the Bouncy. It allows the user to transform anything they touch into slime; Big used this ability to transform Nico's sword, making it soft. The user can also transform themselves into slime, making them bouncy.

Speed Star
The Speed Star (スピードスター, Supīdo Sutā?) is a Mod Power used by Harry. It gives monsters the ability to speak.

Arcane Gambit
Arcane Gambit (ウィッチの秘術, Witchi no Hijutsu?, lit. "Witch's Secret Technique") is a Mod Power used by Dr. Liquid. It releases a deadly poison from the user's finger. The poison is strong enough to melt an arrow from simple contact, and cannot be cured by drinking milk. Dr. Liquid possesses enough control over his ability to control the poison to a certain extent, shooting it out in blasts or collecting it in a large pool in the air.
While normally incurable, Dr. Liquid has a developed an antidote to his poison, which he keeps on him in a bottle. Nico's Milk Arrow was also able to puncture a wall of the poison.

Techniques
Venom Shot (ヴェノムショット, Venomu Shotto?): By pointing forward, Dr. Liquid can blobs of poison at his opponent. Even if his target places a block between them, the poison will simply erode it.
Colossus
Colossus (超大型, Chō Ōgata?) is a Mod Power used by the Colossal Zombie. It causes the user to grow to an extreme size, dwarfing even mountains. It was named by Gray.

The King's Mod
The King's Mod (王のMOD, Ō no Moddo?) is a Mod Power that the Evil King's Gang want to use to destroy the world.

Teleport Command
The Teleport Command (テレポートコマンド, Terepōto Komando?) is a Mod Power that allows the user to use the /tp command to teleport themselves or others (through direct contact) to specified coordinates. It is used by Calamity.

Enlargement
Enlargement (広域化, Kōiki-ka?) is a Mod Power stored in a wither skeleton skull. It was one of three used by Abyss when creating the ultimate Wither.

Power Amplification
Power Amplification (威力增大いりょくぞうだい, Iriyokuzōdai?) is a Mod Power stored in a wither skeleton skull. It was one of three used by Abyss when creating the ultimate Wither.

Forced Fusion
Forced Fusion (強制融合, Kyōsei Yūgō?) is a Mod Power stored in a wither skeleton skull that allows the user to forcibly fuse others. It was one of three used by Abyss when creating the ultimate Wither, which he created by fusing a Mod Power-infused Wither, himself, and Icco White. The one who activated the fusion appears to remain in control once fused, as Abyss remained in control of the ultimate Wither. The only way to unfuse somebody is to kill them; however, they are still eligible to be revived with a totem of undying, and will remain unfused afterwards.

One Block
One Block (ワンブロック, Wan Burokku?) is the ability to create a palm-sized pocket dimension, containing a single grass block, and to trap others inside. It is used by an unnamed pickpocket.

Gallery



			Nico's powers awakening.



			Exposition on Mod Powers.



			Nico using Imagination.


References

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 2, Character Wiki

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 6, "Mystery Monster Hunt!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 3, Character Wiki

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 4, Character Wiki

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 5, Character Wiki

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 25, "A Father's Footsteps, a Son's Road!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 6, Character Wiki

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 1, "Nico's Adventure Begins!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 10, "Friends Must Be Protected!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 5, "The Twin-Blade Ninja's Challenge!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 7, "Battle on the High Seas!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 8, "First Festival, Then Treasure!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 18, "Clash with the Mighty Enderman!!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 15, "Icco White's Past!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 59

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 2, "A New Friend!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 12, "Bad-Guy Town Ahead!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 14, "The Blow to Crush Evil!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 19, "They're Back! Platinum vs. Ruby!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 16, "More Food, Stat!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 23, "To the Netherworld!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 24, "The Wrath of the Blue Blaze!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 26, "A Dream Rekindled!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 27, "Speed vs. Honor! A Race to Remember!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 28, "Venom Meets Vengeance!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 30, "Kaboom Goes the Navy Cannon!"

 Minecraft: The Manga Volume 11, Character Introductions

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 57

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 58

 Minecraft: The Manga Chapter 61

Navigation