This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Mojang Presents... An Update Aquatic





Type

Mockumentary

Productioncompanies

Brikk Animation

Date

October 3, 2018

Length

1:42

Village & Pillage: A Wanderous Journey ►

{
    "title": "Mojang Presents... An Update Aquatic",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Mockumentary",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Brikk Animation article, displayed as Brikk Animation)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "October 3, 2018",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:42",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[Village & Pillage: A Wanderous Journey]] ►</div>"
}

Mojang Presents... An Update Aquatic is an animated trailer, presenting a unique mix of Minecraft characters in realistic environments, promoting the Update Aquatic

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Quotes
3 Credits
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Promotional images
5.2 Production images
5.3 Screenshots

6 References
7 Navigation

Summary
A parody of a nature documentaries, the video opens with curtains revealing the ocean, as a narrator praises the sea as a "vast space... of nothing." Suddenly, the narrator's peace is disturbed by the emergence of dolphins, conceding that it used to be empty. "An Update Aquatic" is announced, as the narrator whines about the dolphin's grace, before showing footage of tropical fish and turtles on a beach. The narrator is audibly annoyed by their slowness, saying they don't have all day to get into the water. They then appear inside of a coral reef, which the narrator calls majestic, before being shown a shipwreck, which the narrator calls sad. However, a drowned appears, which the narrator cheerfully identifies as a survivor.
Moving onto icebergs, the narrator appears to either change their mind on the tragedy of shipwrecks or make a very distasteful joke, saying that icebergs are "why all those stupid ships sank." They then change the topic to bubble columns, simply remarking "bubbles" before being startled by the appearance of a phantom, which they remark "isn't very aquatic." As they're shown ocean ruins, they concede they "sound somewhat entertaining," and then see a barrage of new features, including coral reefs, cod, kelp, turtle eggs, tridents, buried treasure, salmon, seagrass, underwater ravines, tropical fish, and finally pufferfish. Remarking "what a kook!" to the sight of a pufferfish, the narrator warms up to the prospect of updating the oceans. As the video ends, it is credited as starring "assorted fish," as well as "crafted by many DEVELOPERS, a few PIXEL ARTISTS & inspired by real-life OCEANS."

Characters

Aquatic Narrator
Cod
Dolphin
Drowned
Phantom
Pig
Polar Bear
Pufferfish
Salmon
Tropical Fish
Turtle
Settings

Arctic
Beach
Coral Reef
Iceberg
File:AreaSprite minecon-earth-2017.pngMinecon Earth 2017
Ocean
Ocean Ruins
Shipwreck
Underwater ravine
Quotes
“Take a deep dive into the Update Aquatic!„ — Video description
Credits
SFX
Joel Andersson
Trivia
Brikk Animation intended Mojang Presents... An Update Aquatic to be a parody of nature documentaries, particularly A Life Aquatic by Wes Anderson, which is the reason why the animation uses real locations.
Gallery



			Thumbnail


Promotional images










































Production images



			Creating the beach.



			Creating the shipwreck.



			Creating the icebergs.


Screenshots



































			A pig being scared by a phantom.































































			A pig, presumably the same one harassed by the phantom from before, on a floating iceberg.


References

 "Mojang - Update Aquatic"     by Brikk Animation  – Behance, October 4th 2018.

Navigation