This article is about the block.   For the entity in Minecraft Dungeons, see MCD:Mob Spawner.   For spawn eggs, see Spawn Egg.  For the variant found in trial chambers, see Trial Spawner.

Monster Spawner









View all renders

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

No

Stackable

Yes (64)

Tool

Blast resistance

5

Hardness

5

Luminous

No

Transparent

JE: PartialBE: Yes

Waterloggable

JE: NoBE: Yes

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

No

Map color

 11 STONE

Note block instrument

Bass Drum

{
    "extratext": "[[#Gallery|View all renders]]",
    "title": "Monster Spawner",
    "images": [
        "Monster Spawner.png",
        "Spawner with fire.png"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png: Sprite image for Wooden Pickaxe in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|A wooden pickaxe or better is required to mine this block)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "5",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "5",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to JE article, displayed as JE)''': Partial<br>'''(link to BE article, displayed as BE)''': Yes",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Waterlogging article, displayed as Waterloggable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: rgb(112, 112, 112); border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> 11 STONE</span>",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Bass Drum",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Monster Spawner"
    ]
}

A monster spawner is a type of spawner found in a variety of structures. It constantly summons instances of the mob displayed within it as long as a player is in range and the light levels are correct for that mob type to spawn nearby. It only drops experience orbs when broken, and cannot be moved from where it is found.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Natural generation

2 Usage

2.1 Mechanics

2.1.1 Spawning requirements

2.2 Disabling
2.3 Custom monster spawners
2.4 Piston interactivity

3 Sounds
4 Data values

4.1 ID
4.2 Block data

5 Videos
6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition
6.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
6.5 Data history

7 Issues
8 Trivia
9 Gallery

9.1 Renders

9.1.1 Spawner
9.1.2 Structure

9.2 Screenshots
9.3 In other media

10 See also
11 Notes
12 References
13 External links
14 Navigation

Obtaining
Monster spawners cannot be obtained in Survival, even with Silk Touch.
A monster spawner can be obtained in Creative mode by taking it from Creative inventory, by using the /give command, or by using pick block. It is initially empty and inert, but can be configured to spawn a desired mob by using a spawn egg on the placed block.
A /setblock, /clone or /fill command can also be used to obtain a monster spawner.

Breaking
If broken with a pickaxe, a monster spawner drops 15–43 experience. When mined with anything else, it drops nothing.

Block

Monster Spawner

Hardness

5

Tool

Breaking time (sec)

Default

25

Wooden

3.75

Stone

1.9

Copper

1.5

Iron

1.25

Diamond

0.95

Netherite

0.85

Golden

0.65

OptionsEfficiency000Haste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

 These durations ignore any other influential factors (e.g., Mining Fatigue) and are measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Mining efficiency.

Natural generation
Monster spawners can generate naturally in the following places:

Monster rooms
One in the center of the monster room spawning one of the following mobs with the indicated frequency: zombie (50%), skeleton (25%), or spider (25%).
Mineshafts
Any number of cave spider monster spawners, densely surrounded by cobwebs, scattered throughout.
Woodland mansions
Optionally one spider monster spawner, densely surrounded by cobwebs, in a rarely generated secret room on the 2nd or 3rd floor. It is sometimes visible through the windows from outside.
Strongholds
One silverfish monster spawner in the end portal room.
Nether fortresses
One or two blaze monster spawners on fenced platforms with full-block "stairs" leading up to them. Normally two are generated per fortress, but there can be fewer.
Bastion remnants
One magma cube monster spawner hanging from an iron chain underneath a bridge in treasure rooms.
Usage
A monster spawner spawns mobs in an (at most) 9×3×9 volume (see § Mechanics) around it when the player is within 16 blocks. Suitable spawning locations for the block's mob type are provided in or around the spawning volume. The monster spawner attempts to spawn four mobs around it, then waits from 10 to 39.95 seconds before attempting to spawn more.
In Peaceful difficulty, monster spawners still activate but do not spawn monsters, including zombie horses and camel husks in Java Edition.
Monster spawners are transparent, but they behave like leaves in that they diffuse sky light coming from directly above.

Mechanics
A monster spawner activates when a player (that's not in Spectator mode) comes within a spherical radius of 16 blocks from the center point of the block; i.e. 15.5 blocks from the monster spawner itself. The player's presence is determined by coordinates at their foot level, meaning that a player standing exactly 15.5 blocks below the spawner doesn't activate it, even though their head is in range. In Java Edition an active monster spawner attempts to spawn mobs within a 4-block horizontal and 1-block vertical range; that is, in a 9×3×9 volume centered on the monster spawner. In Bedrock Edition, the horizontal spawning range is 4 blocks taxicab distance, creating spawning volume extending 4 blocks in each cardinal horizontal direction from the sides of the monster spawner; its horizontal cross-section is therefore diamond-shaped. Mobs can spawn anywhere in this range that is suitable, with mobs more likely to spawn closer to the monster spawner than farther away.
While mobs are spawned at fractional x and z-coordinates (i.e. not aligned to blocks), they are spawned at an integer y-coordinate. Horizontally, a mob can spawn with its center point anywhere within range, but vertically, mobs spawn with their legs at either the same layer as the monster spawner block, one block above it, or one block below it.  (Note that when there are other blocks slightly intersecting the mob's hitbox, they can sometimes glitch further away - often up - but this does not make it a true spawning point.)
A monster spawner attempts to spawn 4 mobs at randomly chosen points within the spawning volume, then waits anywhere from 200 to 799 ticks (10 to 39.95 seconds) before spawning again. As it waits, the mob model inside the block spins faster and faster. Except for the normal solid-block spawning requirement, all the remaining ones must be met (not in a solid block, correct light level, etc.), so the monster spawner often produces fewer than 4 mobs. When it does spawn, more flame particles temporarily appear around it, and puffs of smoke are emitted from the spawned mobs in Java Edition or the northwest corner of the spawner in Bedrock Edition. If the monster spawner fails to spawn any mobs because it did not pick any suitable locations, it repeats this process every tick until it succeeds. It starts the next wait cycle only after successfully spawning at least one mob.
If 6 or more mobs of a monster spawner's type have their hitbox intersecting a 9×9×9 volume centered on the monster spawner block in Java Edition or a 16×10×16 volume centered on the lower northwest corner of the monster spawner block in Bedrock Edition, the monster spawner "poofs" without creating any mobs and then waits for the next cycle.[needs testing in Bedrock Edition] This is checked before each of the four spawn attempts.

Spawning requirements
A monster spawner performs a relaxed version of the ordinary spawning check: the general solid block requirement is removed, but the volume (hitbox of the mob) is kept along with some other checks according to mob specifics. As a result, for some types of mobs to spawn in the outer planes of the spawning volume, some planes outside the volume may also need to be free of solid blocks to conform with the mobs' height, width, or other rules governing their individual spawn volumes. Examples:

For mobs that are two or more blocks tall such as zombies, skeletons, or blazes to spawn in the top y-layer, the layer above must contain only a transparent block such as air, glass, leaves, etc.
In Java Edition, a turtle monster spawner can spawn turtles only on sand blocks less than 4 blocks above sea level (typically at Y=62). In Bedrock Edition no biome/light/height conditions apply for turtles in monster spawners.
In Bedrock Edition, some animals require light level ≥7, e.g. chicken, sheep, cow, rabbit. Others ignore the light level condition given in the spawning rules json files, e.g. parrot, turtle. This suggests that some of the early animals have hard-coded requirements when used in monster spawners.

Summary of maximum spawn volumes for common monster spawners

Mob type

Required Volume (Java)

Required Volume (Bedrock)[verify for Bedrock Edition]

Verticalalignment

Pig

8.9×2.9×8.9

Cave Spider

8.7×2.5×8.7

Silverfish

8.4×2.3×8.4

Zombie

8.6×3.95×8.6

8.6×3.9×8.6

Skeleton

8.6×3.99×8.6

8.6×3.9×8.6

Blaze

8.6×3.8×8.6

8.5×3.8×8.5

Spider

9.4×2.9×9.4

Magma Cube

10.04×4.04×10.04

10.08×4.08×10.08

 these do not spawn naturally but also apply for every mob that doesn't have special spawn requirements or a spawner

For all of the volumes listed in the table, the horizontal plane is centered on the center of the monster spawner. While the spawning volume for pigs is 8.9×2.9×8.9, the requirement of grass blocks that are necessary for pigs to spawn reduces the actual volume in which they successfully spawn to 8.9×1.0×8.9. Other mobs can spawn in mid-air, ignoring general rules about spawning on solid ground.
The spawn conditions do not include biomes for most mobs. As such, monster spawners can place mobs where they normally wouldn't generate. For example, a mooshroom monster spawner can operate in a plains biome as long as there are mycelium blocks within the spawn area because the mooshroom's spawning code checks only for mycelium. The reason mooshrooms are not actually spawned elsewhere is that the game does not normally try to spawn them in other biomes: only the mushroom field biome has mooshroom on the list of things to spawn.

Disabling
Disabling a blaze monster spawner with nine blocks. Glowstone can be replaced with other light sources of light level 15.
Blaze monster spawner disabled by four jack o'Lanterns. This works only in Bedrock Edition in small rooms.
With the clever placement of nine solid blocks, a magma cube monster spawner can be completely disabled. Only the cobblestone is needed, glass is just for distance marking.
See also: Light § Mobs

The way a monster spawner can be disabled depends on the entity it tries to spawn.
For a monster spawner that generates mobs that spawn only in dark conditions (light level = 0), a torch placed on any side or top of the monster spawner is sufficient to disable it for the whole 9×3×9 volume.
For a blaze or silverfish spawner, a light level of 12 is required to prevent spawning. This can be achieved by:

Laying 9 blocks in the pattern shown on the right using blocks having a luminance value of 15
Laying a dense 7×7 grid of torches on the monster spawner's Y level
In Bedrock Edition, placing a light source of level 15 on four surfaces
A monster spawner is also disabled by filling the spawning volume with solid blocks. This is often used to disable magma cube monster spawners, as magma cubes can spawn in any light level. However, since all magma cubes require the space of a large magma cube in order to spawn, a clever placement of as little as 9 solid blocks a layer above the monster spawner (see right image) can completely disable it.

Custom monster spawners
A monster spawner in a monster room that produces spiders.
In Java Edition, using commands, monster spawners can be customized:

They can be made to spawn any kind of entity.
A single monster spawner can spawn multiple different entities, chosen at random from a list.
Properties can be set on the spawned entities.
Various range and timing properties of the monster spawner can be changed.
Detailed technical information about custom monster spawners can be found below.
In Bedrock Edition, monster spawner customization cannot be done in the base game (i.e. without addons/behavior packs).

Piston interactivity
Monster spawners cannot be pushed by pistons. They also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons.

Sounds
Java Edition:

v
t
e spawner sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.spawner.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.816​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.spawner.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.816​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.spawner.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.spawner.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.50.7516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.spawner.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.016
Bedrock Edition:

v
t
e mob_spawner sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.mob_spawner.break​ ?1.00.8​ ?BlocksWhen the block is placedblock.mob_spawner.break​ ?1.00.8​ ?BlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.mob_spawner.step​ ?0.40.5​ ?BlocksFalling on the block with fall damageblock.mob_spawner.step​ ?1.01.0​ ?BlocksWalking on the blockblock.mob_spawner.step​ ?0.21.0​ ?BlocksJumping from the blockblock.mob_spawner.step​ ?0.121.1​ ?BlocksFalling on the block without fall damageblock.mob_spawner.step​ ?1.01.0
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierForm
Translation key Monster SpawnerspawnerBlock & Item
block.minecraft.spawner
NameIdentifier
 Block entitymob_spawner

Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key Monster Spawnermob_spawner52Block & Giveable ItemIdentical
tile.mob_spawner.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Available with /give command.

 The block's direct item form has the same ID as the block.

NameSavegame ID
 Block entityMobSpawner

Block data
A monster spawner has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition:

See also: Block entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Block entity data
Tags common to all block entities see Template:Nbt inherit/blockentity/template
[Short] Delay: Ticks until next spawn. If 0, it spawns immediately when a player enters its range. If set to -1 (this state never occurs in a natural spawner; it seems to be a feature accessed only via NBT editing), the spawner resets this and SpawnData as though it had just completed a successful spawn cycle, immediately when a player enters its range. Setting this to -1 can be useful if the player wants the game to properly randomize the spawner's Delay and SpawnData, rather than starting with pre-defined values.
[Short] MaxNearbyEntities: Overrides the maximum number of nearby (within a box of SpawnRange*2+1 × SpawnRange*2+1 × 8 centered around the spawner block) entities whose IDs match this spawner's entity ID. This is relative to a mob's hitbox, not its physical position. Also, all entities within all chunk sections (16×16×16 cubes) overlapped by this box are tested for their ID and hitbox overlap, rather than just entities within the box, meaning that a large amount of entities outside the box (or within it, of course) can cause substantial lag.
[Short] MaxSpawnDelay: The maximum random delay for the next spawn delay. Requires the MinSpawnDelay and SpawnCount properties to also be set.
[Short] MinSpawnDelay: The minimum random delay for the next spawn delay. May be equal to MaxSpawnDelay. Requires the SpawnCount property to also be set, otherwise it defaults to 0.
[Short] RequiredPlayerRange: Overrides the block radius of the sphere of activation by players for this spawner. For every gametick, a spawner checks all players in the current world to test whether a player is within this sphere. Requires the MaxNearbyEntities property to also be set.
[Short] SpawnCount: How many mobs to attempt to spawn each time. Requires the MinSpawnDelay property to also be set.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] SpawnData: Contains tags to copy to the next spawned entity(s) after spawning. Any of the entity or mob tags may be used. If a spawner specifies any of these tags, almost all variable data such as mob equipment, villager profession, sheep wool color, etc., are not automatically generated, and must also be manually specified (that this does not apply to position data, which are randomized as normal unless Pos is specified. Similarly, unless Size and Health are specified for a Slime or Magma Cube, these are still randomized). This also determines the appearance of the miniature entity spinning in the spawner cage. Warning: If SpawnPotentials exists, this tag gets overwritten after the next spawning attempt: see above for more details.
[NBT List / JSON Array] SpawnPotentials: Optional. List of possible entities to spawn. If this tag does not exist, but SpawnData exists, Minecraft generates it the next time the spawner tries to spawn an entity. The generated list contains a single entry derived from the SpawnData tag.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object]: A potential future spawn. After the spawner makes an attempt at spawning, it chooses one of these entries at random and uses it to prepare for the next spawn, overwriting SpawnData.
[Int] weight: The chance that this spawn gets picked in comparison to other spawn weights. Must be positive and at least 1.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] data
Spawn Data see Template:Nbt inherit/spawn data/template
[Short] SpawnRange: The radius around which the spawner attempts to place mobs randomly. The spawn area is square, includes the block the spawner is in, and is centered around the spawner's x,z coordinates - not the spawner itself. It is 2 blocks high, centered around the spawner's y coordinate (its bottom), allowing mobs to spawn as high as its top surface and as low as 1 block below its bottom surface. Vertical spawn coordinates are integers, while horizontal coordinates are floating point and weighted toward values near the spawner itself. Default value is 4.

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.
Videos
Note: This video is outdated, as monster spawners have been added to the Creative inventory in Java Edition 1.19.3.





History



This section is missing information about: Did monster spawners have particles circa 1.4.7? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.



This section would benefit from the addition of more sounds. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable sounds to the section.The specific instructions are: Sounds before 24w33a

Java Edition
Java Edition Infdev20100625-1917
 Added monster spawners.

Monster spawners can be picked up and when placed, spawn pigs.20100627
Monster spawners have been given a unique ID, reducing crashes.Java Edition Alphav1.0.1
Monster spawners can't be picked up anymore.v1.1.0
Removed rotating model inside of the monster spawner due to some multiplayer issues with it.Java Edition Beta1.2
Monster spawners again show a rotating model inside of what they spawn in singleplayer after being missing for several versions.1.8Pre-release
Added cave spider monster spawners to mineshafts.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease
 The texture of monster spawners has been changed to a darker color.

Added blaze spawners to Nether fortresses.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
Added natural silverfish monster spawners.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Monster spawners now drop when mined using a tool enchanted with the new Silk Touch enchantment.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
Squid monster spawners now work only in a narrow elevation range, from 46 to 62.

Monster spawners no longer drop when broken using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
Monster spawners now take much less time to destroy; the breaking time is tier dependent.1.2.112w06a
Monster spawners now show the mob they are spawning in multiplayer; previously they would always show a pig.1.3.112w18a
As a result of singleplayer being changed to an internal server, mobs spawned by monster spawners are no longer accompanied by puffs of smoke.12w21a
Pick block no longer works on monster spawners.12w22a
Monster spawners now drop experience when destroyed.12w26a
Monster spawners now support extra data pertaining to what they spawn.​[more information needed]1.814w26c
The horizontal spawning range of monster spawners is now calculated from the center of the block rather than the northwest corner.

The exclusion zone of monster spawners has been reduced: for a default monster spawner, the 6 mobs must be in a 9×9×9 region rather than 17×9×17 to prevent spawning.14w28b
The type of mob spawned from a monster spawner can now be changed by using a spawn egg on it.1.916w02a
A monster spawner containing a large mob now scales down the mob to fit inside the monster spawner block.1.1116w39a
Spider monster spawners now generate in woodland mansions.1.1317w47a
"Monster Spawner" has been renamed to simply "Spawner".1.1418w43a
 The texture of spawners has been changed.19w14a
Mobs spawned by monster spawners are once again accompanied by puffs of smoke.1.1620w16a
Magma cube spawners now generate in bastion remnants.pre1
Lightning bolts now render if set as the entity a spawner is to create; previously they would be entirely invisible.1.1721w20a
The rarity of spawners has been changed from "Common" to "Epic".1.18experimental snapshot 2
Zombie, skeleton, spider, and cave spider spawners now require a light level of 12 to prevent spawning.21w37a
The light level changes in experimental snapshot 2 have been reverted.1.19.322w43a
The spawner is now available in the Creative inventory.22w44a
"Spawner" has been renamed back to "Monster Spawner".

The monster spawner now has the "Common" rarity again, as prior to 21w20a.

Monster spawners no longer have a pig in them and flame particles by default.

Pick block once again works on monster spawners.1.20.323w45a
 Monster spawners now render the inner faces.1.20.524w13a
Custom monster spawners can now specify a loot table to use as equipment of spawned mobs.1.21.224w33a
Added unique placing, breaking, and stepping sounds to monster spawners.

Fishing bobbers now render if set as the entity a spawner is to create; previously they would be entirely invisible.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.9.0build 1
 Added monster spawners.build 2
Added monster spawners to the Creative inventory.

The type of mob spawned can now be changed using a spawn egg.build 9
Monster spawners now emit a light level of 3.v0.12.1build 1
Blaze monster spawners now generate in nether fortresses.

Monster spawners now drop experience when mined using a pickaxe.Pocket Edition1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
Spider monster spawners now generate in woodland mansions.Bedrock Edition1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
 The texture of monster spawners has been changed.1.16.0beta 1.16.0.59
Magma cube monster spawners now generate in bastion remnants.1.17.30beta 1.17.30.21
Monster spawners no longer emit light.1.21.20Preview 1.21.10.23
Monster spawners now have new sounds.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
 Added monster spawners.TU3
 The texture of monster spawners has been changed.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
The type of mob spawned from a monster spawner can now be changed by using a spawn egg.TU48CU381.411.411.41Patch 17
Added a particle effect and sound effect when a monster spawner fails to spawn due to spawn limits.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Pig spawners now generate in woodland mansions.TU56CU481.551.551.55Patch 261.0.6
Spider spawners now generate in woodland mansions instead of pig spawners.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Monster spawners are now available in the Creative inventory, and can be obtained with pick block.  1.90
 The texture of monster spawners has been changed.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added monster spawners.
Data history
Java Edition1.814w18a
Monster spawners with numerical metadata variants 1 through 15, which are inaccessible through normal gameplay, now have no model  rather than appearing identical to monster spawners.14w26a
Block metadata has been completely removed from this snapshot onward with the introduction of block states. As this block never used block metadata at all prior to this version, fifteen unused, inaccessible metadata variants of it have been completely removed from the game:


   DV
   Description


0
Monster Spawner

1-15
Inaccessible "boring" variants of monster spawners
1.1116w32a
The block entity ID has been changed from MobSpawner to mob_spawner.1.1317w47a
Prior to The Flattening, this block's numeral ID was 52.pre5
The ID of spawners has been changed to spawner.
Issues
Issues relating to "Monster Spawner" or "Spawner" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Monster spawners containing zombies can never spawn a zombie villager.
In Java Edition, monster spawners containing zombies have a small chance to spawn a chicken jockey.
Monster spawners containing zombies or skeletons have a chance for the mob spinning inside to have armor.
Monster spawners containing spiders have a small chance to spawn a spider jockey.
In Java Edition, monster spawners containing pillagers have a small chance for the mob spinning inside to be a raid captain.
In Bedrock Edition, the iron golem inside an iron golem spawner is apparently on very low health, visible by the cracks.
Monster spawners in mushroom fields, the deep dark or the Void biome can function normally, despite those biomes having no hostile mobs spawn naturally.
It is possible for an empty monster spawner to generate naturally. If a newer world is loaded in an older version of Minecraft, the monster spawner can lose its block entity data, causing it to enter its default state, which is an empty monster spawner. Alternatively, if a buried treasure chest generates next to a monster spawner, it duplicates the monster spawner without duplicating the NBT tag, resulting in a natural empty monster spawner. The chest also gets invalid block (monster spawner) data, making it unopenable.
A monster spawner does not preserve its NBT data when placed in Survival mode. It requires the player to be in Creative mode and have permission level greater than or equal to 2.
Gallery
Renders
Spawner






































Structure



			A blaze monster spawner in a nether fortress.



			Spider monster spawner in a woodland mansion.


Screenshots



			A monster room, connected to another monster room, with two monster spawners.



			A monster spawner edited to spawn zombies wearing enchanted diamond armor.



			Light required to disable a blaze monster spawner.



			A monster spawner that spawns skeletons.



			A spider monster spawner that generated on the surface. The monster spawner is located roughly in the middle of the picture, underneath a cobweb.



			Chickens spawning from multiple monster spawners.



			A monster spawner in an older version of Minecraft.



			Cave spider monster spawner seen from a chamber.



			A magma cube monster spawner inside the bastion remnant.



			A spider monster spawner connected to a mineshaft.



			Two blazes spawned near a blaze monster spawner and a wither skeleton.



			Pig monster spawners generating when a buried treasure chest spawns inside a monster spawner (Fixed in 1.17 pre-1).



			Amethyst geode with mineshaft and 2 cave spider monster spawners. Check the image for more details, including seed and coordinates.



			2 cave spider monster spawners next to each other.



			Spider monster spawner generated right next to the village.



			Mineshaft and skeleton monster spawner generated at the bottom of the world.



			A close-up view of am iron golem spawner, with visible cracks in the golem.


In other media



			A Mob (Zombie) Spawner as it appears in Minecraft Dungeons



			A Blaze Spawner as it appears in Minecraft Dungeons


See also
Minecart with Monster Spawner
 Monster spawner traps0
Trial Spawner
Notes

 Like leaves, this block diffuses sky light only from directly above.

References

 MC-132820 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-50605 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-106146 – Zombie spawner doesn't spawn zombie villagers – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-234396 – Buried treasure can create invalid block entities when generating in the location same as a block entity

 MC-105216 – BlockEntityTag not used in survival – resolved as "Works As Intended".

External links
Block of the Week: Spawner – Minecraft.net on January 13, 2022
Navigation