"Mountain" redirects here.  For the seventh Minecraft novel, see Minecraft: The Mountain.
 For the biome formerly named mountains, see Windswept Hills.

Various mountain biomes as seen from a jungle.
Mountains are terrain forms with elevated and jagged terrain, containing unique biomes and terrain characteristics.

Contents

1 Description
2 Biomes

2.1 Slopes

2.1.1 Meadow
2.1.2 Cherry grove
2.1.3 Grove
2.1.4 Snowy slopes

2.2 Peaks

2.2.1 Jagged peaks
2.2.2 Frozen peaks
2.2.3 Stony peaks
2.2.4 Badlands

3 Achievements
4 Advancements
5 Videos
6 History

6.1 Development
6.2 Java Edition
6.3 Bedrock Edition
6.4 Minecraft Education

7 Issues
8 Gallery

8.1 Screenshots
8.2 Mojang screenshots
8.3 In other media

9 See also
10 References
11 External links
12 Navigation

Description
Typical mountain terrain generates before biome placement in the world generation. The highest peaks, usually passing the cloud height, are generated in areas with very low erosion values, and mountains can cover larger areas further inland. Smoother mountain peaks can generate at slightly higher erosion values, and at medium erosion values they are replaced with flat, elevated plateaus. When mountainous areas border oceans, the surrounding land is cut off by large stone cliffs, exposing many caves inside. Mountainous terrain at high continentalness replaces rivers with middle biomes, often in deep valleys surrounded by tall peaks. Rivers that do generate close to mountains are much deeper and the surrounding terrain is very steep, resembling fjords.
Mountain peaks, but also plateaus, often generate in circles of a single peak range, with enclosed valleys with medium biomes inside. When peaks generate without circles at lower erosion values, they cover an area large enough to reach the maximum generation of Y=256, where they are cut off and form plateaus. At higher erosion, they usually form single peaks or longer ranges surrounded by various valleys. All mountain peaks have very steep and jagged terrain, exposing stone, caves, and various ores, but they rarely generate floating islands.
There are six biomes that can generate on the tallest mountain peaks, and there are other biomes that typically generate on the slopes or plateaus near mountains. All peaks can generate pillager outposts and some of these biomes are the only places where goats can spawn in the game. Just like the windswept hills, windswept gravelly hills, and windswept forest, emerald ores can be found in mountain biomes, especially at higher altitudes, and both coal and iron ores are commonly found in the mountains. Underground, below the sea level, infested block blobs naturally generate in mountain biomes. The only surface features in mountain peaks are calcite strips in stony peaks and oak trees in wooded badlands, but other structures and features are commonly found in neighboring slopes and plateaus.
Cave biome generation is also affected by mountain generation, with deep dark generating deep below the biggest mountain terrain at low erosion, and dripstone caves above the deep dark, or surrounding the mountainous terrain at higher continentalness values. Lush caves can sometimes also generate below mountains where other cave biomes do not generate.
Most temperate and cold peak biomes and slopes have lower temperatures to allow snowfall at any height. Other cold but rainy biomes such as old growth taigas and meadows, however, may reach high enough elevations close to mountains to allow snowfall on the surface as well. The warmer stony peaks only have rainfall and badlands do not have precipitation at all. Exposed dripstone caves in elevated mountain terrain are also covered with snow in Bedrock Edition, even in warm or dry biomes, or on grassy slopes.

Biomes
There are seven biomes unique to mountains.

Slopes
These are the biomes that only generate on the slopes of mountains or standalone as plateaus. They usually generate in high altitudes beneath the peaks and hilltops, with groves and snowy slopes generating above meadows and cherry groves. These biomes only generate in snowy, cold, or medium temperature zones.
Some of these biomes can be replaced by other biomes in specific conditions:

In cold areas and medium areas with high humidity, forested biomes such as forests, taigas, old growth taigas, and birch forests can generate on the slopes and plateaus, replacing meadows and cherry groves.
In warm temperature zones, forests, jungles, and savanna plateaus replace them as well as groves and snowy slopes.
All biomes are replaced by badlands in dry temperature zones.
Savanna plateaus and pale gardens are exclusive to plateaus and slopes.
Meadow
Meadow
Main article: Meadow
The meadow is a grassy biome filled with a specific type of flowers defined by the flower gradient, along with wildflowers and turquoise-green grass and tall grass, where sheep, donkeys and rabbits spawn. All small flowers generate except blue orchids, tulips, lilies of the valley, eyeblossoms, or wither roses. Rarely, a lone oak or birch tree of any size can generate and always has a bee nest. Both pillager outposts and plains villages can generate in this biome, making this the only mountain biome where villages can generate. In Java Edition, unlike most overworld biomes, sugar canes and pumpkin patches cannot generate here. This biome can generate on both mountain slopes and plateaus, mainly next to plains, but also various forested biomes. It is separated from cherry groves by rivers.

Cherry grove
Cherry grove
Main article: Cherry Grove
Cherry groves are similar to meadows, but featuring pink petals and cherry trees identified by their striking pink leaves that drop petal particles. The cherry trees can generate densely enough create a cover of leaves. Bee nests with bees generate somewhat commonly on the side of the cherry trees. Cherry groves are mainly next to plains and separated from meadows by rivers.

Grove
Grove
Main article: Grove
The grove creates a forest of spruce trees on the sides of a mountain, reminiscent of a snowy taiga but the surface is covered with snow layers, snow blocks, dirt and strips of powder snow instead of grass blocks. Rabbits, snowy wolves and snow foxes can spawn in this biome. This biome generates next to all other slope biomes, and temperate, cold, and snowy forested biomes as well as snowy slopes. In snowy areas with low erosion, groves typically cover entire climate zones stretching over thousands of blocks, whereas they are very small in other temperature zones.

Snowy slopes
Snowy slopes
Main article: Snowy Slopes
The snowy slopes is almost the same as grove except that no trees generate, making it similar to snowy plains. It is a mostly barren biome covered in snow, multiple layers of snow blocks and strips of powder snow, with steep sides to the north or east also having stone cliffs covered with snow layers. Goats spawn in this biome alongside rabbits and polar bears.‌[BE  only] This is the only mountain biome where igloos can generate. This biome generates similarly to groves but in lower humidity areas next to snowy plains, ice spikes, plains, sunflower plains, and flower forests. Like groves, they can cover thousands of blocks in snowy climate zones with low erosion.

Peaks
There are six peak biomes that generate in areas with low erosion, high PV value, and high continentalness value, which means they generate only at the tops of the mountains that are tall enough to generate them. Biomes generated on peaks cannot border any other biomes than the slopes listed above. Jagged peaks and frozen peaks often generate on the peaks on different sides of large valleys.

Jagged peaks
Jagged peaks
Main article: Jagged Peaks
The jagged peaks biome is more likely to generate in taller and more jagged and pointy peaks that often pass the clouds and can peak at Y=256. Goats spawn in this biome, and in Bedrock Edition, rabbits and polar bears also spawn here. Jagged peaks generate in temperate, cold, and snowy biome temperature ranges.

Frozen peaks
Frozen peaks
Main article: Frozen Peaks
The frozen peaks are covered by snow, snow blocks, with glaciers of packed ice and occasional small blobs of ice. Packed ice cliffs can generate in steep sides to the east or north with only a layer of snow covering them. Because this biome generates in positive weirdness, this biome usually generates in smaller and smoother hills, but it can also generate on taller and more jagged and pointy peaks but less compared to the jagged peaks biome. Frozen peaks generate in temperate, cold, and snowy biome temperature ranges.

Stony peaks
Stony peaks
Main article: Stony Peaks
The stony peaks are a warmer variation of both the jagged peaks and the frozen peaks biomes that generates when a mountain peak is in the lukewarm biome temperature range. It generates in savannas, some forests, some plains, and jungles, and it doesn't generate snowy slopes, groves, meadows or cherry groves in the slopes of the mountain, instead, savanna plateaus, forests, and jungles often generate around it. It is mainly covered by stone with large strips of calcite and exposed ores. Stony peaks are the second rarest Overworld biome, making up around 0.1% of the Overworld by area.

Wooded badlands in mountain peaks
Badlands
Main articles: Badlands, Wooded Badlands, and Eroded BadlandsAll types of badlands replace other peak biomes in warm temperature zones. This occurs when badlands and all variants generate on very low erosion. Like other peak biomes, they can generate up to Y=256.
Unlike true mountain biomes, emerald ore does not generate here.
At higher elevations, the stained terracotta layers generate as usual and more different colors are visible because of the steep cliffs. Eroded badlands don't generate their hoodoos at the mountain peaks, making them indistinctable from regular badlands. Wooded badlands generate with coarse dirt, leaf litter and oak trees, making this the highest biome with trees, which may peak up to Y=263. Because badlands also generate as slope and plateau biomes, the highest mountain peaks are often isolated from other biomes. They can sometimes border stony peaks, and the lower parts can also border rivers, deserts, and lukewarm biomes.

Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherSound of MusicMake the Meadows come alive with the sound of music from a jukebox.Use a music disc on a jukebox in the Meadow biome.10Bronze
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Sound of MusicMake the Meadows come alive with the sound of music from a JukeboxUse a music disc on a jukebox that stands within a meadow biome.Light as a RabbitWalk on Powder Snow... without sinking in itWalk on powder snow while wearing leather boots.
Videos









History
Development
September 28, 2019
During MINECON Live 2019, the mountains won the community biome vote; additions were improved terrain generation, powder snow, and goats.October 3, 2020
The Caves & Cliffs update was announced at Minecraft Live 2020, showing a sneak peek at goats and the new mountain generation.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
Added meadow, grove, snowy slopes, lofty peaks and snowcapped peaks.experimental snapshot 2
Blue orchids no longer spawn in meadows.

Oaks and Birches can now have a small chance of generating in meadows, oftentimes with a bee nest on them.

Infested stone and emerald ore now generate in the new mountain biomes.experimental snapshot 3
Added stony peaks.

Meadows and peaks are less likely to generate in flat, low elevation areas.

Snowcapped peaks and snowy slopes no longer generate with dirt under snow layer.

Pillager outposts now generate in all the new mountain biomes.

Villages now generate in meadows.

Goats now spawn in the new mountain biomes.experimental snapshot 4
Snowy slopes no longer generate with dirt under the surface layer.

Strips of andesite, calcite and granite now generate in stony peaks.experimental snapshot 5
Mountain tops are now more jagged and pointy.

Mountain areas and peak biomes now are slightly larger on average.

Raised the average mountain height.

Fixed an unintentional change from snapshot 4 that made mountains lower and smoother.experimental snapshot 6
Groves and snowy slopes are less likely to generate on mountain peaks.

Groves and snowy slopes start generating lower down in cold areas and higher up in warmer areas.21w37a
Strips of andesite, granite, and gravel no longer generate in stony peaks.

Spruce trees no longer generate in groves.21w38a
Spruce trees once again generate in groves.21w39a
Trees in meadows now always contain a bee nest.21w40a
Goats no longer spawn in stony peaks.

"Lofty Peaks" has been renamed to "Jagged Peaks".

"Snowcapped Peaks" has been renamed to "Frozen Peaks".21w41a
The snowy slopes and jagged peaks surfaces have been fixed to work like they did in the experimental snapshots, where steep sides of the peaks that facing the east or north are exposed stone.

The sky color of jagged peaks and frozen peaks has been changed from  #79a6ff to  #859dff.

The sky color of groves has been changed from  #79a6ff to  #81a0ff.

The sky color of meadows has been changed from  #79a6ff to  #7ba4ff.

The sky color of snowy slopes has been changed from  #79a6ff to  #829fff.

The sky color of stony peaks has been changed from  #7da2ff to  #76a8ff.21w44a
Powder snow strips are now exposed to the surface, instead of covering by a layer of snow blocks.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Added cherry groves.1.19.4-pre1
Pigs can now spawn naturally in cherry groves.

Donkeys no longer spawn naturally in cherry groves.1.2023w17a
"A Familiar Room" can now be played in meadows, groves, snowy slopes, jagged peaks, frozen peaks, and stony peaks.
"A Familiar Room", "Bromeliad", and "Echo in the Wind" can now be played in cherry groves.1.20.524w10a
Rabbits, wolves, and foxes are now the only passive mobs spawning in the grove biome.
Wolves that spawn in groves are now the snowy variant.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.16.200ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.16.200.52
Added goats, which currently spawn in extreme hills as a placeholder.1.16.220ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.16.220.50
Added the mountain biome variants: mountain meadow, mountain grove, snowy slopes, jagged peaks, and snow capped peaks.

Goats now spawn in the snowy slopes biome.beta 1.16.220.52
The terrain of the new mountains is now cut off at Y=256.1.17.30ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.17.20.22
Goats now spawn only in snowy slopes biome.beta 1.17.20.23
Hostile mobs can now spawn in the new mountains and cave biomes.1.17.40ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.17.40.20
Villages now spawn in meadows.

Meadows now spawn a lone oak or birch tree, often with bee nests.

Infested stone now generates in the new mountain biomes.

Added stony peaks.

Goats now spawn only in snowy slopes, jagged peaks, stony peaks, and snowcapped peaks.

Rabbits can now spawn in meadows and snowy slopes.

Donkeys and sheeps can now spawn in the meadow biome.

Foxes can now spawn in grove biome.1.18.0beta 1.18.0.20
The new mountain biomes can now generate by default without enabling experimental gameplay.

Villagers, rabbits, and foxes spawned in the Frozen and Jagged Peaks biomes now spawn as their respective snowy variants.

Goats now spawn in the jagged peaks and frozen peaks.beta 1.18.0.24
Changed some biome IDs: lofty_peaks to jagged_peaks, mountain_grove to grove, mountain_meadow to meadow, snow_capped_peaks to frozen_peaks.1.19.40Preview 1.19.40.20
Grove biome now classified as "Cold" and villagers spawned there are the snow variant.1.20.80Preview 1.20.80.21
Foxes now spawn less frequently in groves.
Rabbits now spawn more frequently in groves.1.21.60Preview 1.21.60.23
Short grass now generates more frequently in meadows.
Tall grass now generates more frequently in meadows.
Flowers now generate in patches instead of being homogeneously spread across the meadows.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education1.18.321.18.10.04
Added new mountain biomes.
Issues
Issues relating to "Mountains", "Meadow", "Snowy Slopes", "Grove", "Frozen Peaks", "Jagged Peaks", or "Stony Peaks" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Screenshots



			Large mountains.



			A mountains generated right next to a badlands biome in Bedrock Edition.



			A perspective shot of an updated mountain with the moon above it.



			A screenshot from a tall mountain peak. Note the elevation.



			Preview of mountain generation.



			Preview of mountain generation.



			A tall birch with bee nest generated in meadow.



			Jagged peaks and ice spikes.



			A ruined portal generated in a meadow hill.



			Mountains seen in Minecraft Live 2020.



			Snowy mountain biomes would generate directly next to hot biomes in early caves and cliffs development - this is why the stony peaks biome was added.


Mojang screenshots



			Meadow showcase from Minecraft.net website.



			Mountains rising above the clouds.



			Frozen and stony peaks surrounded by cliffs and forests.



			Frozen and stony peaks surrounded by cliffs and forests.



			Frozen and stony peaks surrounded by cliffs and forests.



			A river valley flanked by groves.



			Extremely huge cliff from Caves & Cliffs development.



			A small snowy mountain biome.



			Very large mountains covered in spruce trees and snow.



			A snowy peak in the distance.



			A mountaintop sunset.



			High mountains in the distance.



			A mountain with several large cave entrances on its side.



			A lake in a crater surrounded by mountains.



			Stony peaks near stony shores and jungles.



			Mountains with taiga slopes.



			Mountains in development.



			A jagged peaks biome in java and bedrock.



			Mountains next to a frozen ocean.



			A sunset in a mountain valley.



			A frozen peaks mountaintop.



			A small patch of greenery surrounded by foreboding peaks.



			A cabin in a forest surrounded by mountains.



			The same mountains in java and bedrock.



			Stony peaks at sunset.


In other media



			Official logo of the Mountains biome used during the promotion of the Biome Vote 2019



			Early concept art designed for A Minecraft Movie from 2016.


See also
Windswept Hills
Windswept Forest
Windswept Gravelly Hills
Gravelly Mountains+
Windswept Savanna
Snowy Taiga
Stony Shore
Cave
References

 MC-236816 – Granite, andesite and gravel strips no longer generate in stony peaks, as well as diorite, granite and andesite strips for stone shores – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-236698 – Big Spruce Trees don't generate in Groves – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-237457

 MC-238912

 MCPE-119561

 MCPE-146886


External links
"Around the Block: Meadow"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, April 14, 2022.
"Around the Block: Frozen Peaks"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, October 11, 2022.
"Around the Block: Jagged Peaks"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, May 6, 2022.
"Around the Block: Snowy Slopes"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, October 6, 2023.
Navigation