This article is about the game drop.   For the skin pack, see Mounts of Mayhem (skin pack).   For the Minecraft Education update that included the features of this update, see Copper, Collaborate & Compete.

Mounts of Mayhem

Release date

December 9, 2025

Version(s)

Java Edition 1.21.11
Bedrock Edition 1.21.130

◄◄ The Copper Age

Tiny Takeover ►►

{
    "title": "Mounts of Mayhem",
    "images": [
        "1.21.11 banner.jpg",
        "Mounts of Mayhem unveiling header.jpg"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "December 9, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*(link to Java Edition 1.21.11 article, displayed as Java Edition 1.21.11)\n*(link to Bedrock Edition 1.21.130 article, displayed as Bedrock Edition 1.21.130)",
            "label": "Version(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\"><span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">◄</span>◄ [[The Copper Age]]</div>\n\n</div><div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[Tiny Takeover]] <span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">►</span>►</div>\n</div>"
}

Key artwork



 There are guides for this update! 
See Java Edition guides/Mounts of Mayhem and Bedrock Edition guides/Mounts of Mayhem for a guide to all of the new features introduced in Mounts of Mayhem.

Mounts of Mayhem is a game drop released on December 9, 2025 as Java Edition 1.21.11 and Bedrock Edition 1.21.130.  Its theme is a combination of both "mounts" and "combat". It introduces spears, netherite horse armor, nautiluses, nautilus armor, parched, zombie nautiluses, camel husks, zombie horses spawning naturally, and the ability for most mounts to swim. It was announced at Minecraft LIVE – September 2025.

Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Items
1.2 Enchantments
1.3 Effects
1.4 Mobs

2 Changes

2.1 Items
2.2 Mobs

3 Further revisions

3.1 Bedrock Edition

4 Promotions

4.1 Dungeon Descent
4.2 Challengers Tournament
4.3 Reward Drops
4.4 Community Challenge

5 Quotes
6 Videos
7 Gallery

7.1 Official artwork

7.1.1 Profile pictures
7.1.2 Trading cards

7.2 Mojang images
7.3 Merchandise

8 References
9 Navigation

Additions
Items
         Nautilus armor

A new tiered armor type for equipping a tamed nautilus or zombie nautilus.
Cannot be crafted.
Copper, iron, gold, and diamond variants can be found in ocean structure chests.
Netherite variant can be obtained by upgrading the diamond variant in a smithing table.
 Netherite horse armor

A new type of horse armor.
Provides 19 ( × 9.5) armor points, 3 armor toughness, and 1 knockback resistance.
Obtained by upgrading diamond horse armor using a smithing table with a netherite upgrade template.
Spawn eggs:

 Camel husk spawn egg
 Nautilus spawn egg
 Parched spawn egg
 Zombie nautilus spawn egg

      Spear

A new tiered weapon.
Has a longer attack range than the sword or any other weapon.
Includes two main attacks: jab and charge.
The faster the player moves while charging, the more damage is done to an entity.
Can be crafted using 2 sticks and its corresponding tier item or by upgrading from diamond to netherite using a smithing table.
Enchantments
 Lunge

Spear exclusive enchantment with 3 levels.
Only works with the jab attack.
When doing a jab attack with Lunge, it propels the player horizontally in the view direction.
The view angle needs to be perfectly leveled horizontally to achieve maximum lunge distance.
Consumes saturation and hunger points at an amount dependent on the enchantment level, as well as 1 durability point.
Can only be used if the player has 6 or more hunger points.
Effects
 Breath of the Nautilus

Freezes the entity's oxygen bar.
Applied when riding on a nautilus or zombie nautilus.
Mobs
 Camel husk

A rare undead variant of the regular camel that spawns in deserts at night.
 Spawns with two riders: a husk wielding an iron spear and a parched, forming a camel husk jockey.
The husk rider has a chance to drop a rabbit's foot when killed.
Counts as a hostile mob until ridden by a player, despawning like other hostile mobs.
Does not burn in sunlight.
Behaves similarly to a regular camel, except it cannot be bred.
Can be tempted and healed using a rabbit's foot.
Drops rotten flesh like any other zombie-type mob.
 Nautilus

An aquatic neutral mount that spawns in oceans.
Can dash attack at any mob if provoked.
Occasionally hunts pufferfish.
Immune to poison.
Can be tamed and bred with pufferfish and buckets of pufferfish, though it can be fed any type of fish or fish bucket afterward.
 Baby nautiluses have a unique model and sounds.
Rideable with a saddle, controlled with mouse/joystick movements, similar to the happy ghast.
Has a dash movement that can be used while riding it, similar to the camel.
When ridden, the rider is given the Breath of the Nautilus effect, freezing their oxygen bar.
When on land, the nautilus becomes dehydrated.
Has a 5% chance to drop a nautilus shell when killed.
 Parched

A variant of the skeleton that spawns in deserts at night.
Does not burn in sunlight, similarly to the husk.
Shoots arrows of Weakness.
Immune to Weakness.
Has a slower rate of fire compared to a normal skeleton, similar to the bogged.
 Zombie nautilus

A rare undead variant of the regular nautilus that spawns in oceans and dripstone caves.
 Can also spawn as a coral variant in a warm ocean.
 Spawns being ridden by a drowned wielding a trident, forming a zombie nautilus jockey.
Counts as a hostile mob while untamed, despawning like other hostile mobs.
Behaves similarly to a regular nautilus, except it cannot be bred.
Swims 10% faster than regular nautiluses when swimming.
Doesn't dehydrate when on land.
Burns in sunlight.
Nautilus armor prevents the zombie nautilus from burning in sunlight.
Drops rotten flesh like any other zombie-type mob.
Changes
Items
 Leather horse armor in Java Edition

Changed texture to more closely match Bedrock Edition.
Spawn eggs

Now sorted thematically in the Creative inventory, according to the following categories:
Overworld
Farm Animals
Mounts
Pets
Wild Animals
Aquatic
Miscellaneous
Golems
Villagers
Undead
Spiders
Monsters
Illagers
Nether
The End
 Changed zombie horse spawn egg texture to reflect the zombie horse's new texture.
Mobs
Donkey, camel, horse, mule, and zombie horse

No longer sinks in water when ridden by a player.
Riders are still dismounted if their head goes underwater.
Piglin, husk, zombie, zombie villager,‌[Java Edition  only] and zombified piglin

Can now spawn holding a spear and use its charge attack.
 Zombie horse

Changed texture.
Now spawns naturally in plains and savanna biomes at night.
 Spawns being ridden by a zombie wielding an iron spear, forming a zombie horseman.
The zombie rider has a chance to drop a red mushroom when killed.
Counts as a hostile mob while untamed, despawning like other hostile mobs.
Now drops 2-3 rotten flesh instead of 1.
Can be tempted and healed using red mushrooms.
Can be equipped with a saddle and horse armor.
Now burns in sunlight.
Horse armor prevents the zombie horse from burning in sunlight.
Further revisions
Bedrock Edition
1.21.131 was a hotfix that fixed bugs.
1.21.132 was a hotfix that fixed bugs.
26.0 was a minor update that added command macros and fixed bugs.
26.1 was a hotfix that fixed two bugs.
26.2 was a hotfix that fixed one bug related to 26.0.
26.3 was a hotfix that fixed two bugs related to 26.0.
Promotions
Dungeon Descent
Main article: Mounts of Mayhem: Dungeon Descent
Key art for the add-on.
Released on January 12, 2026, Dungeon Descent is a promotional add-on expanding on the drop, with features such as dungeons, charms, and decorative dungeon and horse stable themed blocks.

Challengers Tournament
Main article: Mounts of Mayhem: Challengers Tournament
The Mounts of Mayhem: Challengers Tournament, also referred to as the Mayhem Tournament, is a series of articles on Minecraft.net written to promote the Mounts of Mayhem drop.

Reward Drops



This section would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Render of Animations needed.

Three special reward drops are available to promote the release of the game drop. One is available through TikTok, and the other two are available through Twitch.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Obtaining

Date

Icon

Render

Champion's Shawl

-

Outerwear

Rare

Watch 3 minutes of any Minecraft livestream on TikTok with the Game Reward enabled.

December 10 - 31, 2025

Parched Hoodie

-

Epic

Watch 5 minutes of any Minecraft livestream on Twitch.

Spear Spinning

-

Emote

Rare

Subscribe to or gift a subscription to any Minecraft creator livestream on Twitch.



			An artwork depicting the Champion's Shawl



			An artwork depicting the Parched Hoodie and the Spear






Community Challenge
See also: Mounts of Mayhem (skin pack)

Key art for the event.
The Mounts of Mayhem Community Challenge was a community challenge promoting the release of the game drop. Announced on December 10, 2025, the challenge began on December 12 and concluded on December 15, 2025.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Obtaining

Icon

Render

Zombie Horse Cape

Cape

Legendary

Defeat five mobs with a spear in Survival mode in Bedrock Edition.
The mobs may be either neutral or hostile, do not need to be defeated simultaneously, and can be spawned beforehand in Creative mode.

Zombie Horse Onesie

-

Outwear

Rare

Required players to spawn at least 75 million Zombie horses.






Quotes
“Hi friends, Mounts of Mayhem just dropped
You've got new mobs to meet and a new weapon to master„ — Notification sent to users with the Minecraft app on mobile devices
Videos

























Gallery



			Popup showed in Bedrock Edition after updating to the Mounts of Mayhem drop. Notice that it shows "1.21.13" instead of "1.21.130".


Official artwork



			A Mounts of Mayhem artwork used in a Minecraft Monthly episode



			Alternate colors version



			Artwork used for the release date reveal



			Ditto



			Artwork of Kai battling a zombie nautilus jockey



			Artwork of Efe battling a zombie horseman



			Artwork of Sunny battling a camel husk jockey



			A wallpaper depicting Steve on a horse



			A wallpaper depicting a zombie horseman


Profile pictures



			An Efe profile picture



			A nautilus profile picture



			A Steve profile picture



			A camel husk jockey profile picture



			A zombie horseman profile picture



			A zombie nautilus profile picture


Trading cards



			A chicken jockey trading card



			A camel husk trading card



			A zombie horse trading card



			An armored steed trading card



			A baby nautilus trading card



			A coral zombie nautilus trading card



			A shiny coral zombie nautilus trading card



			A pig rider trading card



			A spear wielder trading card



			A zombie nautilus trading card


Mojang images



			A nautilus



			A baby nautilus and an adult nautilus



			Ditto in a coral reef



			A nautilus with copper nautilus armor



			A nautilus with iron nautilus armor



			A nautilus with gold nautilus armor



			A nautilus with diamond nautilus armor



			A nautilus with netherite nautilus armor



			A zombie nautilus



			Zuri riding a nautilus



			Zuri escaping from drowned



			A nautilus jumping out of the water



			An iron spear



			A diamond spear



			A zombie wielding a spear while riding a zombie horse.



			Ari using a diamond spear for a charge attack while riding a horse.



			Ari performing a jab attack while riding a horse.



			Sunny using a diamond spear by jabbing.



			A husk wielding an iron spear, and a parched equipped with a bow, riding a camel husk in a desert under the moonlight.



			A camel husk and its hostile riders – a husk and a parched.



			Ditto



			Camel husk jockey at sunset



			Ari riding a camel husk with Sunny on a donkey.



			A parched close to a lava lake



			A parched surrounded with cactuses



			A horse swimming in water



			A swimming horse with a foal



			A camel husk being ridden by a husk and a parched in the desert.



			A badlands biome with the Mounts of Mayhem challenger logo.



			Camel husk jockey in the badlands



			Ari charging with a diamond spear



			Ari and Zuri wielding spears



			A zombie nautilus jockey



			A leather armored zombie horseman



			Efe riding a horse while both are fully equipped with netherite armor and a netherite spear.



			A horse wearing netherite horse armor



			Ari feeding a carrot to a horse wearing netherite horse armor.



			Kai next to a horse, both wearing netherite armor of their respective type.



			Ari riding a horse in netherite horse armor.



			Promotional image released the day before Mounts of Mayhem's release.


Merchandise






























References

 "Mounts of Mayhem official release date"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, November 26, 2025.

 "[MC-303860] Riders are still dismounted from mounts when landing in water – Jira"     – Mojira.   Resolved as "Working as Intended".

 "Mounts of Mayhem: Challengers Tournament"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, October 29, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Arena Tournament"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 4, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Aquatic Challenge"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 7, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Movie Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 14, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Cave Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 18, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Friends Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 20, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Nether Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 24, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Midnight Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 27, 2025."Mounts of Mayhem: Finale Arena"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, December 3, 2025.

 "Earn your own Champion's Shawl Character Creator Item! Here's how:Starting on December 10, tune in to your favorite Minecraft streamer with Game Reward enabled for 3 minutesClick the Game Reward icon at the top left to claim the reward- available until December 31, 2025!Go to https://msft.it/6018ss8hE and enter the code to unlock the Champion's Shawl!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), December  6, 2025

 "Watch, support, win and wreak mayhem!! From Dec 10 - Dec 31 2025 on @Twitch- Watch 5 minutes of Minecraft and get a Parched Hoodie.- Support a #MinecraftLIVE Creator and unlock the Spear emote."  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), December  6, 2025

 "More Mayhem Incoming"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, December 10, 2025.

 "Mount of Mayhem Challenges"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, December 12, 2025.

 "Some more info:- You just need to defeat five mobs total, not necessarily all at once- Doesn't matter whether the mobs are neutral or hostile- You can go to Creative and back to Survival" – @cornerhard.bsky.social  on Bluesky, December 13, 2025

Navigation