For bans from Minecraft, see Commands/ban.



This article does not cite enough sources. 
You can help by adding citations to reliable sources.



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.Instructions: This page needs a history table. Add one if possible.


A ban or suspension is a punishment that is given to players who violate the rules of Minecraft. Bans can either be temporary or permanent, depending on what rule they violated.

Contents

1 History
2 Screens

2.1 Java Edition

2.1.1 Title Screen
2.1.2 Joining a server

2.2 Bedrock Edition
2.3 Screen 1
2.4 Screen 2
2.5 Screen 3

3 Appeals
4 Banned Actions

4.1 References

History
The first known system used for bans was MCAdmin, which was created by Doridian in 2011, owned by Team Avolition. It operated with a 3-strike system. Once a player was banned from 3 servers with MCAdmin, they would be banned from all servers using the plugin.
Sometime in the Nether Update for Bedrock Edition, Mojang added bans to Minecraft. When a player was violating the rules, they would be banned from Minecraft. Later on, Minecraft made it so that on XBOX and Nintendo Switch, they couldn’t play on their own single player worlds.
In Java Edition 1.19.1, along with chat reporting, players could also be banned from Java Edition.
Realms don’t pause when banned, and the player will not get their Realm extended or refunded. They also will be charged if it would be.

Screens
When the player gets banned from Minecraft, a screen will show up every time Minecraft is opened telling the user that they’ve been suspended or banned from Minecraft.
Every time a world is opened on Bedrock Edition, a popup will show telling the user that they can't use multiplayer.

Java Edition
In Java Edition, the ban screen is similar to the Regular Disconnection Screen, except it shows the title screen background, but blurred. The text is entirely in Mojangles; The heading in the top center of the screen shows if the account is temporarily or permanently suspended. Below it, normal text saying that Mojang received a report for bad behavior and that they banned the player. It would show how long until the player is unbanned (on temporary bans only), and what they can’t do on Minecraft while there banned. At the bottom, there were 3 buttons:
·      Open in Browser – opens a webpage about bans in the user’s default web browser.
·      Copy to Clipboard – Copies the URL link to the user’s clipboard.
·      Acknowledge – Closes the ban message and takes the player to the title screen.

Title Screen
When the player goes to the title screen when banned, the Multiplayer and Realms Buttons will be grayed out. Hovering over them will say “Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your account settings” or “Your account has been temporarily/permanently suspended from Online Play.”

Joining a server
If a player joins a server before the ban screen is shown, an error message will appear saying “Failed to login: you are banned from playing online.” After, the next time they see the screen, the Multiplayer button will be grayed out.

Bedrock Edition
Screen 1
This is the only screen with an icon. To the left is a hammer (gavel) striking the top of a layered block. To the right, in Noto Sans, which is used for all parts of the normal ban screens, except buttons and the title, is text saying that the user was banned from Minecraft and that they will not be allowed to use certain features.
In a later update, the word “Online” was removed from “Minecraft Online,” and the text saying players won’t be able to play their own singleplayer worlds on some platforms was added.

Screen 2
This screen says that the user was banned and that they can’t use certain features, like the previous one. There is a glitch where players can’t open any menus and the ban message (without the “X” button) appears.
This screen was mostly retired with Ore UI, using the 3rd screen instead. A rare, dark version also exists. The 3rd Screen is always dark theme. Like Java Edition, temporary bans show how many hours/days are remaining on a ban. Bans are now sometimes known as suspensions.

Screen 3
The current screen is similar, with another variant for bans from XBOX Live that never shows how much time is left until the unban. If the ban is not due to XBOX Live and the ban is temporary, the player will see the time left until unban. The screen is always dark screen mode. The screen uses Ore UI.

Appeals
Players can appeal a ban, but for the first few months, all bans were permanent and could not be appealed at all.
Not all bans can be appealed; if a ban is less than 1 days (24 Hours), or the ban was not appealed within 1 year of the ban being issued, it can’t be appealed anymore.
Bans can be accepted or rejected. The “More Info” button links to the page where players can submit an appeal.

Banned Actions
When the player is banned, they won’t be able to:
·      Join Realms
·      Create Realms
·      Use Multiplayer
·      Use the Marketplace or use Minecoins and Existing Content
·      Join Singleplayer Worlds on XBOX and Nintendo Switch‌[Bedrock Edition  only]
·      Use Parties
·      Use the dressing room or using existing clothing that is not on the player

References

 Banned Minecraft Accounts and the Appeal Process | Minecraft Help

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kEfyaAq90kg

 https://youtu.be/FbLFIH-pa-0?si=JBZyNCRPURo6upok

 Microsoft Just Falsely BANNED Me From Minecraft... So I Exposed Them...

 Banned from multiplayer AND single player because I called a villager farm slavery in a private realm with three people on. : r/MCPE

 May i please get unbanned from minecraft. Please i love playing the hive with my friends - Microsoft Q&A