This page only covers Mumbo Jumbo's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Mumbo Jumbo, please refer to other websites.

Mumbo Jumbo

Real name

Oliver Brotherhood

Date of birth

December 1, 1995 (age 30)

Years active

2012–present

Nationality

British

Languages

English

Minecraft roles

Auction attendee cameo in A Minecraft Movie
Documentarian
Panelist
Supervisor

Twitter handle

@thatmumbojumbo

YouTube channel

ThatMumboJumbo

{
    "title": "Mumbo Jumbo",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Oliver Brotherhood",
            "label": "Real name"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 1, 1995 <span data-isodate=\"1995-12-01\">(age 30)</span>",
            "label": "Date of birth"
        },
        {
            "field": "2012–present",
            "label": "Years active"
        },
        {
            "field": "British",
            "label": "Nationality"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Languages"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Auction attendee cameo in ''(link to A Minecraft Movie article, displayed as A Minecraft Movie)''\n* Documentarian\n* Panelist\n* Supervisor",
            "label": "(link to Minecraft (franchise) article, displayed as ''Minecraft'') roles"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://twitter.com/thatmumbojumbo @thatmumbojumbo]",
            "label": "Twitter handle"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.youtube.com/@ThatMumboJumbo ThatMumboJumbo]",
            "label": "YouTube channel"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Mumbo_Jumbo_IRL.jpg"
    ]
}

Oliver "Oli" Brotherhood, better known by the alias Mumbo Jumbo, is an English YouTuber known for his interest in redstone and participation on the Hermitcraft server.

Contents

1 In the Minecraft franchise

1.1 Events
1.2 A Minecraft Movie

2 Quotes
3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Renders
4.2 Screenshots
4.3 Photographs

5 References
6 Navigation

In the Minecraft franchise



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Go into what the panels were about, list other appearances in official media

To promote the release of Minecraft Earth, a series of videos starring Mumbo and Grian were produced. To assist with the production, a special skin pack was given to them; the game lacked the ability to import skins directly.
In 2019, to celebrate the culmination of one trillion views on Minecraft content, Mumbo made a cameo appearance in One Trillion Minecraft Views on YouTube and Counting. This video featured him and Grian riding on a moving house, an actual creation of Mumbo's, which he was pleased to see animated.

Events
In 2016 he was on a panel at MINECON 2016 which was the first dedicated to the Hermitcraft server.
In 2018, he attended a panel at MINECON Earth, that was also about the Hermitcraft server. In the beginning the hermits explained what they like about playing in a multiplayer environment with a diverse set of like minded people. They emphasized a need to patient in their meetings because of all of their cultural differences. They then moved on to talking about the hardware and software side of running a server while Mumbo got called out for the amount of lag he creates. The hermits then transition into talking about fostering their own community servers and Mumbo shares the importance of having a dedicated team who works tirelessly to maintain that community. After that they talk about fostering friendships through multiplayer Minecraft and how community games like Grian’s tag and shopping districts are invaluable to the multiplayer experience. They conclude the panel by explaining the work that goes into setting up a new season of Hermitcraft and pranks on the Hermitcraft server.
He was also on similar panel at MINECON Live 2019 about the Hermitcraft Server.

A Minecraft Movie
In 2025, he made a cameo appearance in A Minecraft Movie alongside several other creators as Auction Attendees at an auction for Steve's belongings. Behind the scenes, he served as a consultant, helping design several potential visual gags in Midport Village and redstone contraptions for the film. Among these, he helped design devices for an early version of the Steve's Lava Chicken! scene, several designs based off Jared Hess suggesting the use of cactus balls, and a “Piglin Trojan horse.” The latter ended up having to be scrapped for a variety of reasons, but got repurposed for one of Mumbo's most popular videos. At one point, he had an altercation with Jason Momoa, the actor who plays the Garbage Man. Prior to the film's release, he issued a video reviewing the trailer.

Quotes
“Useless machines epitomize what I love most in redstone creations. They are decently complicated from a wiring perspective, incredibly satisfying when built well, and totally pointless. This trifecta of attributes is what I look for in my favorite builds (with pointlessness being the most important).„ — Oli being interviewed on redstone
Trivia
Mumbo was delighted to see the creaking get introduced, having always wanted a "'weeping angel' esque mod [sic]".
While visiting the set of A Minecraft Movie, the thing he was most impressed by was the design of the props, singling out a square potato.
In 2019, an article on Minecraft.net linked to a video of Mumbo's, recommending it for hiding buttons.
Gallery
Renders



			Mumbo's skin.


Screenshots



			Mumbo covered in cactus balls.



			Mumbo holding a slime cube.



			Mumbo chopping wood.



			Mumbo holding a redstone wire prop.



			Mumbo signing a contract of dubious reality.



			Mumbo in a golden helmet.


Photographs



			Mumbo at the premiere of A Minecraft Movie.


References

 "Minecraft Live: Minecraft Earth Road Trip"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 14, 2025

 "I made a Walking House in Minecraft 1.14"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, June 11, 2019

 MINECON 2016 Hermitcraft: Growing and Maintaining a Strong Server Community - Minecraft YouTube, Oct 29, 2016

 "MINECON Earth community panel - Hermitcraft Presents: Creating, Maintaining, and Evolving An SMP"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 29, 2018

 "HermitCraft: Much better together!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 29, 2019

 "I did redstone for the Minecraft Movie"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, April 19, 2025

 "Exclusive insights from A MINECRAFT MOVIE | Only in Theaters"  – Minecraft on YouTube, November 18, 2024

 "I Visited the Minecraft Movie set"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, November 18, 2024

 GAMERS OUTREACH CHARITY WEEKEND!! GeminiTay POV - DAY 2 - Hermitcraft Charity Stream 2025

 "Giant Minecraft machines are embarrassingly simple"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, December 11, 2023

 "I ruined Jason Momoa's video"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, April 8, 2025

 "The Minecraft Movie Trailer looks silly"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, September 4, 2024

 "Useless Machines"     by Chris Priestman  – Minecraft.net, February 19, 2020.

 "This is stupidly cool. I’ve wanted a ‘weeping angel’ esque mod since I first played with the mod back in 2011!"  – @ThatMumboJumbo  on X (formerly Twitter), September 28, 2024

 "How to build hidden doors"     by Chris Priestman  – Minecraft.net, September 14, 2019.

 "Best Ways to Hide a Button in Minecraft!"  – Mumbo Jumbo on YouTube, October 1, 2016

Navigation