For the background shown in the title screen, see Panorama.



This article is missing information about: The backgrounds of the BE Realms and Marketplace loading screens 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

The background is a decorative background of a GUI displayed during dimension teleporting, in some menu screens, and the credit sequence, composed of block textures.

Contents

1 Backgrounds

1.1 Dirt background
1.2 Netherrack background
1.3 End stone background
1.4 Nether portal background

1.4.1 Java Edition
1.4.2 Bedrock Edition

1.5 End portal background
1.6 Development background

2 History

2.1 Java Edition
2.2 Bedrock Edition

3 Issues
4 Gallery
5 References
6 Navigation

Backgrounds
The background is always shown in menus while the game or panorama is not rendered. Backgrounds in certain menus, such as the Realms loading screen or startup splash screen are simply images part of the UI.

Dirt background



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Dirt backgrounds only appear in the credits, on non-Ore UI connection error screens, and on the loading screen when teleporting to the Overworld using a Nether portal. In Java Edition, when teleporting to the Overworld or custom dimensions, a blurred panorama is displayed in the background instead.
Despite the texture of dirt being changed in Pocket Edition v0.2.0 alpha, the dirt backgrounds still use the old texture, except the dirt background when teleporting to the Overworld.



			Dirt background on error screen



			Dirt background in the credit sequence, which has a vignette



			Dirt background when teleporting to Overworld


Netherrack background



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A background with netherrack texture is displayed when teleporting to the Nether.






End stone background



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A background with End stone texture is displayed when teleporting to the End.






Nether portal background
Java Edition
An animated Nether portal texture is displayed when changing dimension to or from the Nether in Java Edition. However, the texture is stretched to the size of the window and not a repeated texture like on Bedrock Edition.






Bedrock Edition



This section describes content that has been officially made unobtainable in Bedrock Edition. 
It can still be obtained using third-party software. However, this can cause unexpected behavior such as bugs and crashes.

A background with unanimated darkened Nether portal texture was displayed when joining Realms until 1.19.50, after which it was only used for error messages which were gradually replaced by Ore UI showing the panorama instead.  It can only be seen by forcing the old UI in that scenario.






End portal background



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

An animated End portal texture is displayed when changing dimension to or from the End. It is also displayed when taking the End portal back to the Overworld after defeating the ender dragon.



			End portal background for teleporting to the End



			End portal background for the credit sequence


Development background



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A currently unused background for the main menu in Ore UI.



			Background main with Tiny Takeover in Preview 26.40.30


History
Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.0.12a
 Added a loading screen with a dirt background.0.0.13a
 Darkened overlay of the dirt background.Java Edition Indev0.3120100131-2156
 Added menu screen, which also used the dirt background.

The dirt background on the main menu would slowly scroll, similar to the later added credits.20100206-2034
The main menu background is now stationary.Java Edition Beta1.8(preview)
Replaced background in the main menu with the panorama.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
 Added the End Poem and the credits, which also used the dirt background.1.20Pre-release 1
The texture used for the options background has been updated. The texture for dirt itself was updated in 1.0.0 (Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5), however the old version was still used until this version.1.20.524w09a
The dirt background has effectively been removed, with new resource pack functionality relegating it to the Programmer Art resource pack. Instead of the dirt background for the main menu and settings, now a blurred panorama and blurred gameplay is used. The End and Nether portal textures are now used when traveling to the End and the Nether
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
 Added dirt background.v0.7.0
 Replaced dirt background in the main menu with the new blurred background.v0.7.3
Replaced background in the main menu with the panorama.v0.14.2
 Brightened overlay of the dirt background.v0.16.0build 1
 Replaced dirt background with the Nether portal background when joining Realms.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
 Added the End Poem, which also uses the dirt background.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.18
   Dimension transition screens now have specific backgrounds with textures of dirt, netherrack and End stone.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
  Changed textures for the netherrack and the End stone.1.19.50
Updated the Realms loading screen and removed the Nether portal background. It is still visible on Realms error messages.
Issues
Issues relating to "Background" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery



			The dirt background when teleporting to the Overworld



			The netherrack background when teleporting to the Nether



			The End stone background when teleporting to the End



			The dirt background in the End Poem



			The dirt background on old error messages



			The Nether portal background on old Realms error messages


References

 "The image is a prototype. I doubt that it would look like this when the main menu gets converted to Ore UI.As far as I know, no search in the initial release, but I think I saw designers looking into it."  – @Volgar  on X (formerly Twitter), December  9, 2024

 "Minecraft Bedrock will finally have a new Main Menu soon."  – @SmokeyStack_  on X (formerly Twitter), July  7, 2026

 MC-198202

Navigation