This page describes content that has been removed from Minecraft. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Minecraft, but has since been removed.

Bad Omen

Sources

See § Causes

Particle

 #0b6138 (dark green)

Type

Neutral

{
    "title": "Bad Omen",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "See (link to #Causes article, displayed as <span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\">§ Causes</span>)",
            "label": "Sources"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:18px;width:18px\">(link to File:EffectSprite particle-bad-omen.png article, displayed as 18x18px|link=|alt=EffectSprite particle-bad-omen.png: Sprite image for particle-bad-omen in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|)</span> #0b6138 (dark green)",
            "label": "Particle"
        },
        {
            "field": "Neutral",
            "label": "Type"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Bad Omen JE2 BE2.png"
    ]
}

Prior to the Tricky Trials update, Bad Omen was a status effect that caused a raid when an affected player entered a village.

Contents

1 Effect

1.1 Animation

2 Causes
3 Immune mobs
4 Data values

4.1 ID

5 Achievements
6 Advancements
7 History
8 Trivia
9 References
10 Navigation

Effect
Bad Omen could be obtained by killing an illager captain.
If a player entered a village with Bad Omen, a raid was triggered. The enchantment level of the incoming raiders' equipment was increased depending on the level of the omen, and the resulting Hero of the Village effect matched the level of the omen, if all raiders had been defeated with villagers still alive.

The status effect showing up on the player's inventory.
Bad Omen's potency determined the chance for illagers to be equipped with enchanted weapons when the player triggered a raid by entering a certain radius around a villager-claimed POI (bed, job site, or bell). If the raid resulted in player victory, the Hero of the Village's potency equaled the Bad Omen's potency (capped at level 5). Bad Omen levels past the first also gave a single extra raid wave, given the difficulty level. For example, with Bad Omen II-V in Easy difficulty raid had four waves instead of three, Normal difficulty had six waves instead of five, and Hard difficulty had eight waves instead of seven.‌[JE  only]
As a status effect, Bad Omen could be removed through all conventional methods, such as drinking milk or dying.
The player could still receive the Bad Omen effect in Peaceful difficulty via commands (all pillager captains despawn in Peaceful), but it did not trigger a raid.

Animation
The Bedrock Edition animation for the Bad Omen effect activating.
In Bedrock Edition, upon the effect being given a short animation of the effect icon appearing on the screen plays, similar to a totem of undying.

Causes

Cause

Potency

Length

Raid captain

I–V

1:40:00

Immune mobs
Only bosses like withers and ender dragons were immune to Bad Omen; however, only players could trigger raids.

Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifier
Translation key Bad Omenbad_omen
effect.minecraft.bad_omen
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID
Translation key Bad Omenbad_omen28
effect.badOmen
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherWe're being attacked!Trigger a Pillager Raid.Walk in a village with the Raid Omen effect applied in 30 seconds.20BronzeI've got a bad feeling about thisKill a Pillager Captain.Drink an Ominous Bottle.20Bronze
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)How Did We Get Here?Have every effect applied at the same time
Have all of these 34 status effects applied to the player at the same time:

Absorption
Bad Omen
Blindness
Breath of the Nautilus
Conduit Power
Darkness
Dolphin's Grace
Fire Resistance
Glowing
Haste
Hero of the Village
Hunger
Infested
Invisibility
Jump Boost
Levitation
Mining Fatigue
Nausea
Night Vision
Oozing
Poison
Raid Omen
Regeneration
Resistance
Slow Falling
Slowness
Speed
Strength
Trial Omen
Water Breathing
Weakness
Weaving
Wind Charged
Wither

The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.

See also: Tutorial:Advancement guide/How Did We Get Here?

This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.Voluntary ExileKill a raid captain.Maybe consider staying away from villages for the time being...Kill an entity in the #raiders entity tag wearing an ominous banner:

Evoker
Illusioner
Pillager
Vindicator
This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.
History



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: old and new particles for Bedrock edition beta 1.16.0.51

Java Edition1.1418w47a
 Added Bad Omen.

 In Programmer Art, Bad Omen uses a placeholder texture from inventory.png.19w08a
 The Bad Omen icon texture has now been changed.

Programmer Art now uses this icon.19w11a
Bad Omen is now needed for the "How Did We Get Here?" advancement.19w13a
The maximum potency of Bad Omen has now been increased from three to six.

Bad Omen now doesn´t disappear after entering the village in Spectator mode.1.1620w18a
The maximum potency of Bad Omen has now been decreased to five.1.19.322w46a
The inventory now correctly shows the remaining time on the Bad Omen effect, instead of **:**.1.20.223w32a
The game no longer uses numeric values when storing mob effects to world. Prior to the removal of numeric IDs, this effect's numeral ID was 31.Bedrock Edition1.11.0ExperimentExperimental Gameplaybeta 1.11.0.1
 Added Bad Omen, which is currently behind Experimental Gameplay.beta 1.11.0.3
 The Bad Omen icon texture has now been changed.

Bad Omen now triggers a raid.beta 1.11.0.5
If all villages are no longer registered as villages during a raid, a nearby player is now affected with Bad Omen.beta 1.11.0.7
 A screen effect now plays on-screen when a player gets Bad Omen.1.11.0release
Bad Omen is now available outside of Experimental Gameplay.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.9
The player no longer gets Bad Omen when all villagers die or all beds are destroyed during a raid.1.16.0beta 1.16.0.51
The color of Bad Omen particles has now been changed from tan to dark green.1.18.10beta 1.18.10.24
Removed the particle effect that appeared when obtaining Bad Omen.?
Re-added the particle effect when obtaining Bad Omen.[verify]PlayStation 4 Edition1.91
 Added Bad Omen.
Trivia
If the player leaved a village during a raid, received Bad Omen, and returned to the village, the effect was removed but did not affect the existing raid.
A player could not receive Bad Omen when indirectly killing a patrol captain. This included burning with fire or lava, Thorns damage, drowning, explosions, and suffocation, among other things. This also included killing a captain with fireworks shot from a crossbow.
If the player killed a captain while in a village in Bedrock Edition, the raid bar and Bad Omen effect appeared simultaneously. The effect disappeared immediately after, then "flashes" again approximately 1 second later.
References

 MC-139739 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-139798 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-121865 – resolved as "Fixed".

 One level is added each time a captain is killed, capping at level five.

Navigation