This article is about the block type in Minecraft.   For other namesakes, see Bar.

All bars
Bars are blocks that serve a similar purpose to glass panes, but made out of certain metal ingots instead of glass.

Contents

1 Variants
2 Obtaining

2.1 Crafting

3 Usage

3.1 Placement

4 Block states
5 History

5.1 Java Edition
5.2 Bedrock Edition

6 Issues
7 Navigation

Variants
There are 9 variants of bars:

Copper Bars
Unoxidized Copper Bars (Waxed)
Exposed Copper Bars (Waxed)
Weathered Copper Bars (Waxed)
Oxidized Copper Bars (Waxed)
Iron Bars
Obtaining
Crafting
Both iron and regular unwaxed, unoxidized copper bars have the same crafting recipe format, where six ingots result in sixteen bars of the same type.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Copper Ingot or Iron Ingot

1616

Usage
Iron bars used to create narrow slits
As with glass panes and fences, bars can be used to create narrow slits when placed between a door and a solid block. Mobs can see through and attack through these gaps, and arrows may be shot through them. Also as with fences and glass panes, arrows cannot be shot through bars themselves.
Endermen seen through bars do not become angry. The ender dragon cannot destroy iron bars (some of the end crystals are protected by them), which makes them a useful material in the End.

Placement
Bars can be placed in much the same way as fences or glass panes. If no solid block is adjacent to the bars, they have appearance of a slim, tall column. If something is placed next to bars, they appear either flat,  shaped,  shaped or  shaped, depending on the blocks surrounding it.

Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  eastfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the east.
northfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the north.
southfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the south.
waterloggedfalsefalsetrueWhether or not there's water in the same place as these bars.
westfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the west.
Bedrock Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  minecraft:connection_eastfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the east.
minecraft:connection_northfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the north.
minecraft:connection_southfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the south.
minecraft:connection_westfalsefalsetrueWhen true, the bars extend from the center post to the west.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.8Pre-release
Added iron bars.Java Edition1.21.925w32a
Added copper bars.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.8.0build 1
Added iron bars.Bedrock Edition1.21.111Preview 1.21.110.23
Added copper bars.
Issues
Issues relating to "Bars" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Navigation