This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Basketball










Material

Rubber

Creator

James Naismith

Owner

AI Adventurers
Anton
Po Chen
Player



First appearance

Minecraft: The Crash

{
    "title": "Basketball",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Rubber article, displayed as Rubber)",
            "label": "Material"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:James Naismith article, displayed as James Naismith)",
            "label": "Creator"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Owner"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: The Crash article, displayed as Minecraft: The Crash)''",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MCWSC Basketball.png",
        "AI Basketball.jpg"
    ]
}

A basketball is a type of rubber ball used for recreational sports, usually basketball. Within the Minecraft franchise it is a common subject within novels set in the real world.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 History

2.1 The Crash
2.2 Woodsword Chronicles
2.3 Stonesword Saga
2.4 Ironsword Academy
2.5 AI Adventurers

3 Appearances
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References
7 Navigation

Appearance
A basketball is an orange ball, typically made of rubber, covered in black stripes, called "ribs." In AI Adventurers, it is depicted as a perfect cube, following the traditional art style of Minecraft.

History
The Crash



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Prior to the events of the story, Anton was forced by his parents to start playing basketball, a sport he's not fond of. He nevertheless proved good enough to nearly earn a scholarship, but suffered a brain injury and was admitted to  Holy Angels Hospital.

Woodsword Chronicles



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Stonesword Saga



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Ironsword Academy



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

AI Adventurers
Basketball is the focus of the third episode, AI in Action: Using AI Tools Responsibly. The video opens with Agent and Chicken watching a trick shot on their tablet, which inspires them to use generative AI to "design [their] own trick shot." They appear at a basketball court and go over their plan: they throw the ball, it goes past several landmarks entire continents away, and then into the net. This is deemed impossible, so they change from a GPS to a chatbot, which gives them a simple bounce maneuver. After giving it more detailed instructions, they come up with an elaborate machine made of many blocks, which almost misses the hoop. Quickly, Chicken rushes into the air, and manages to score.

Appearances
Minecraft: The Crash
Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
Into the Game!
Night of the Bats!
Deep Dive!
Ghast in the Machine!
Dungeon Crawl!
Minecraft: Stonesword Saga
Crack in the Code!
Mobs Rule!
The Golem's Game!
The End of the Overworld!
Minecraft: Ironsword Academy
Ready. Set. Respawn!
It's Now or Nether!
Running Hot and Cold!
AI Adventurers
AI in Action: Using AI Tools Responsibly
Trivia
In 2023, a short was made of an allay simulating basketball using blocks.
Gallery



			Artwork of characters playing basketball


References

 "An all-star team of allays can get things done! ⛹️" – @minecraft on Instagram, February 22, 2023

Navigation