This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Beach Party Skin Pack

Skins

14

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

July 19, 2018

Website page

Beach Party Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Beach Party Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "14",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 19, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=b18a5c6b-e2b5-4136-8f34-7ed0d8972332 Beach Party Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Beach Party Skin Pack is a skin pack that includes 14 skins themed around beach culture.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History
4 Gallery

4.1 Promotional artwork

5 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Beach Queen

A dark skinned, squinting figure with large red lipstick, a purple swimsuit and jacket, green bracelets on the right arm, and hair in a bun.

Wave King

A tanned, blonde figure wearing a beige shirt and chartreuse swim shorts.

Beach Ball

A short, brown skinned figure with muted dark blue hair, a white shirt, beige overalls, and a beach ball for a head.

Uses a similar technique to create a short character as several skins in MINECON Earth 2017 Skin Pack.

Chicken Floaties

A red haired, partly shaved figure with pupil eyes, a visible nose, low lips, and floaties designed after a chicken.

Cool 'n Casual

A dark skinned figure wearing earrings, shades, a red Hawaiian shirt, light blue shorts, and a white muscle shirt.

Gaping Gills

A teal and muted pink sea creature making an O face, with eyes on the sides.

Lobster Man

A light skinned person with a toothy grin wearing a costume of a lobster.

Life Guard

A warm skinned figure wearing a red bathing suit, with purple hair, blue pupil eyes, and a first aid kit on their back.

Safety First!

A blonde figure making a cocky face with blue pupil eyes, wearing a life preserver.

Sun Burnt

A sunburnt figure with emerald-colored bands and hairpins.

Classy Beachwear

A pale, pampered figure wearing a sunhat, with a 3D nose,blue and end stone-colored dress, and three pixel wide eyes with two pixel wide green pupils.

Old Timey

A mustachioed or open mouthed figure with a visible nose, vendor hat, and striped bathing suit.

Seaside Granny

An elderly, short figure wearing glasses, a sunflower on their head, a dark blue bathing suit, and a flowered towel on their hips.

Sharp Shark

A person in a shark costume.

Quotes
“Hit the beach with our Summer Skin Pack! Swim in style with our Lobster Man, Gaping Gills and Sharp Shark skins. Relax on the shore with the Wave King, Cool 'n Casual and Sun Burnt skins. Or go retro with Old Timey, Seaside Granny and Classy Beachwear looks! Fourteen fantastic skins, perfect for Summer in Minecraft!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock EditionJuly 19, 2018
The Beach Party Skin Pack is released on the Marketplace.
Gallery
Promotional artwork



			Secondary key art.



			Promotional render of several skins.


Navigation