For the single-use bed variant, see Straw Bed.

Bed


































































Renewable

Yes

Stackable

No

Tool

Any tool

Blast resistance

0.2

Hardness

0.2

Luminous

No

Transparent

Yes

Waterloggable

JE: NoBE: Yes

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

JE: YesBE: No

Map color

  3 WOOL

 16 colors
  8 SNOW
  22 COLOR_LIGHT_GRAY
  21 COLOR_GRAY
  29 COLOR_BLACK
  26 COLOR_BROWN
  28 COLOR_RED
  15 COLOR_ORANGE
  18 COLOR_YELLOW
  19 COLOR_LIGHT_GREEN
  27 COLOR_GREEN
  23 COLOR_CYAN
  17 COLOR_LIGHT_BLUE
  25 COLOR_BLUE
  24 COLOR_PURPLE
  16 COLOR_MAGENTA
  20 COLOR_PINK

Note block instrument

Default (Harp)

{
    "title": "Bed",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "Any tool",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.2",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.2",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Waterlogging article, displayed as Waterloggable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' Yes<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Default (Harp)",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "White Bed",
        "Light Gray Bed",
        "Gray Bed",
        "Black Bed",
        "Brown Bed",
        "Red Bed",
        "Orange Bed",
        "Yellow Bed",
        "Lime Bed",
        "Green Bed",
        "Cyan Bed",
        "Light Blue Bed",
        "Blue Bed",
        "Purple Bed",
        "Magenta Bed",
        "Pink Bed",
        "White Bed BE",
        "Light Gray Bed BE",
        "Gray Bed BE",
        "Black Bed BE",
        "Brown Bed BE",
        "Red Bed BE",
        "Orange Bed BE",
        "Yellow Bed BE",
        "Lime Bed BE",
        "Green Bed BE",
        "Cyan Bed BE",
        "Light Blue Bed BE",
        "Blue Bed BE",
        "Purple Bed BE",
        "Magenta Bed BE",
        "Pink Bed BE"
    ],
    "images": [
        "White Bed.png",
        "Light Gray Bed.png",
        "Gray Bed.png",
        "Black Bed.png",
        "Brown Bed.png",
        "Red Bed.png",
        "Orange Bed.png",
        "Yellow Bed.png",
        "Lime Bed.png",
        "Green Bed.png",
        "Cyan Bed.png",
        "Light Blue Bed.png",
        "Blue Bed.png",
        "Purple Bed.png",
        "Magenta Bed.png",
        "Pink Bed.png"
    ]
}

A bed is a dyeable utility block that allows a player in the Overworld to sleep through the night and change their spawn point to within a few blocks of the bed, as long as it is not broken or obstructed. Villagers sleep in beds at night and require spare beds to produce offspring.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Natural generation
1.3 Crafting
1.4 Trading

2 Usage

2.1 Sleeping

2.1.1 Passing the night
2.1.2 Setting the spawn point

2.2 Bouncing
2.3 Curing
2.4 Placement
2.5 Explosions
2.6 Piston interactivity

3 Sounds

3.1 Generic
3.2 Unique

4 Data values

4.1 ID
4.2 Metadata
4.3 Block states
4.4 Block data

5 Achievements
6 Advancements
7 History

7.1 Development
7.2 Java Edition
7.3 Bedrock Edition
7.4 Minecraft Education
7.5 Legacy Console Edition
7.6 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Screenshots
10.2 Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education
10.3 Mojang images
10.4 In other media

11 See also
12 References
13 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
No tool can accelerate the breaking process of a bed.

Block

Bed

Hardness

0.2

Breaking time (secs)

Default

0.3

OptionsHaste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

A bed drops itself when it's destroyed.

Natural generation
Igloo

A red bed naturally generates in each igloo.
Village

Beds of various colors generate in village houses, depending on the specific structure and biome:
Desert village houses have cyan, green, or lime beds.
Plains village houses have white or yellow beds.
Savanna village houses have orange, red, or yellow beds.
Snowy taiga‌[BE  only] and taiga village houses have blue or purple beds.
Snowy tundra village houses have blue, red, or white beds.
Trial chambers

Beds can generate inside the trial chambers as any color inside various intersections. Each bed has its color randomized.
A purple bed generates in the entrance_1 room and its color is never randomized.
Crafting

Ingredients
Crafting recipe
Notes

Matching Wool +Any Planks

The wool color must match. The planks, however, can be different.

Any Bed +Matching Dye

A bed of any color can be re-dyed using dyes.

Any Dyed Bed +Bleach

This removes the color from the bed.‌[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only]

Ingredients
Crafting recipe
Notes

Any Bed +Bone Meal or Lapis Lazuli or Cocoa Beans or Ink Sac

‌[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only]

Trading
VillagerProbabilityVillager wantsPlayer receivesTrades instockVillagerexperiencePricemultiplierJEBEShepherd Journeyman95%100%3 × EmeraldAny color Bed12100.05
 Every color is a unique offer, meaning in Java Edition, villagers can offer multiple colors simultaneously.

Usage
Sleeping
Player falling asleep in Java Edition
Player falling asleep in Bedrock Edition
Beds are used by pressing the use item button while looking at the bed.
A player sleeps by using a bed when the internal sky light is 11 or below. This occurs between 12523 and 23477 ticks in clear weather, when stars appear in the sky, between 12002 and 23998 ticks in rainy weather, and at any time of day during thunderstorms. Players can sleep during a thunderstorm even if they are in a biome where it does not rain (e.g. desert). Attempting to use a bed at any other time results in the message "You can sleep only at night or during thunderstorms" in Java Edition or "You can only sleep at night or during thunderstorms" in Bedrock Edition. A player sleeps in a bed for 101 in-game ticks, or 5.05 seconds before the time skips to the next day. Sleeping in a bed with the advance_time‌[JE  only] or dodaylightcycle‌[BE  only] set to false results in the player being kicked out of the bed after the 101 ticks, but does not change time of the world to day.
Sleeping in a bed is possible only in the Overworld. Attempting to sleep in a bed in the Nether, the End, and custom dimensions‌[JE  only] in which they are disabled causes it to explode and set fire to surrounding blocks and to the player. The explosion has power 5, which is stronger than TNT (4), but not as strong as a charged creeper or end crystal (6). The explosion centers on the head part of the bed. Villagers can sleep normally in any dimension without the bed being blown up. Upon death from a bed explosion, the message "(Player) was killed by [Intentional Game Design]" appears. In Bedrock Edition, bed explosions can be disabled by setting /gamerule respawnBlocksExplode to false; this still prevents beds from being used in invalid dimensions.
The player must be close to the bed to sleep. If the player is close enough to interact with the bed, but not close enough to sleep in it, the message "You may not rest now, the bed is too far away" in Java Edition or "Bed is too far away" in Bedrock Edition appears. To use a bed, a player must be within a distance of 3 blocks in Java Edition or 2 blocks in Bedrock Edition from the bed.
If a monster is within 8 blocks of the bed head horizontally (in the X- and Z-axis), and 5 blocks vertically (in the Y-axis), the message "You may not rest now; there are monsters nearby" in Java Edition or "You may not rest now, there are monsters nearby" in Bedrock Edition appears and the player is prevented from sleeping until the monsters leave or are killed. Most hostile mobs, as well as some neutral mobs prevent players from sleeping, as shown in the table below.

Mob

Prevent the player from sleeping

Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

BlazeBoggedBreezeCave SpiderCreakingCreeperDrownedElder Guardian
Elder Guardian GhostEndermanEndermiteEvokerGuardianHuskParchedPillagerPhantomRavagerSkeletonShulkerSilverfishSpiderStrayVexVindicatorWardenWitchWitherWither SkeletonZoglinZombieZombie Villager

Yes

Yes

Zombified Piglin

Yes, when hostile

Yes

Magma CubeSlime

No

Yes

PiglinPiglin Brute

Yes

No

Camel HuskEnder DragonGhastHoglinSkeleton HorseZombie HorseZombie Nautilus

No

No

GiantIllusioner

Yes

N/A

If the player has not entered a bed and didn't die for 3 in-game days, phantoms can spawn unless /gamerule doInsomnia is set to false. In Java Edition, this can be verified by checking if the "Time Since Last Rest" statistic is greater than 1.00 h.
Taking damage from any source while in a bed causes the player to wake; this means players cannot sleep while on fire, while poisoned, or while starving, because the damage wakes them before they can fully fall asleep. Attacks from other players and hostile mobs also wake the player in this way, although the latter is rarely seen due to hostile mobs typically preventing the bed from being entered in the first place.
The player also cannot sleep in a bed occupied by another player, resulting in the message, "This bed is occupied".
A player can, however, sleep in a bed being used by a villager. The player may first wake the villager (pressing use on the villager) and then quickly enter the bed before the villager can lie down again. The villager reclaims the bed after the player wakes. The villager is kicked out of its bed when a player attempts to sleep there.
If all sleeping requirements are met and the player enters a bed, the player is positioned in the bed. The player falls asleep as the screen fades to black. In Bedrock Edition, the sleeping animation slowly lowers the player into bed.
Once all players in a world are asleep, after 5 seconds (100 ticks) the time of day changes to sunrise. (time 0)
During this time, the chat window is focused, and the player can leave the bed by clicking the Leave Bed button.
Waterlogged beds‌[Bedrock Edition  only] cannot be slept in unless the player or villager has the Water Breathing or Conduit Power status effects. Attempting to use a waterlogged bed otherwise does not display any message.
In Java Edition, beds displaying an error above the hotbar is a feature exclusive to beds. In Bedrock Edition, the bed sends the message in the chat; other blocks that cannot be used do not display such a message.
The process for determining where to put the player after waking up is the same as for determining where to respawn the player after death (see below). The player attempting to sleep in a bed with no suitable wakeup positions (achievable by interacting with the bed from underneath it), such that the player will suffocate upon waking up, will result in the message "This bed is obstructed" in Java Edition or "Bed is obstructed" in Bedrock Edition. The player always wakes up facing the head of the bed.
Villagers always wake up on top of the bed, meaning they can suffocate if there isn't enough room above the bed.

Passing the night
Sleeping changes the time of day to sunrise and resets the weather cycle, changing the weather to clear conditions. In Java Edition, the weather cycle resets only during rainy or snowy weather.
Sleeping does not accelerate processes that take place over time such as the growth of crops or smelting.
To skip the night in multiplayer, all players in the Overworld must be in bed at the same time. Pressing the Leave Bed button is not necessary in this case. The percentage of players that need to sleep to skip the night can be customized with the game rule players_sleeping_percentage‌[JE  only] or playerssleepingpercentage‌[BE  only]. Sleeping in a bed while players_sleeping_percentage‌[JE  only] or playerssleepingpercentage‌[BE  only] is set to higher than 100 displays the message "No amount of rest can pass this night." and disables passing the night.
Villagers are unable to skip the night by sleeping in beds, unlike players.
Players and villagers do not drown or take damage from lava while in a bed, even if the bed is covered in lava. However, if the bed is destroyed while the player is in it, due to for example an explosion or by another player, the player wakes prematurely and the night does not pass.
In Bedrock Edition, on Peaceful difficulty only, sleeping in a bed fully restores the player's health.

Setting the spawn point
Once a player has entered a bed (or right clicked the bed during daytime), their spawn point is set to the location of that bed. Multiple players can set their spawn point on a single bed.
Using a bed in the daytime likewise sets the spawn point, without actually entering the bed.
When a bed explodes, it does not set the spawn point.
The message "Respawn point set" is displayed in chat when the respawn point is successfully changed.
The check for a bed is made only when the player respawns. This means that the bed can be destroyed and replaced or even reoriented, but as long as there is a bed present in the same location, the player can respawn there. If a player's bed is absent, or if the area around the bed is made unsuitable for respawning (see below), a message is displayed saying "You have no home bed or respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" in Java Edition or "Your home bed was missing or obstructed" in Bedrock Edition, and the player respawns at the world spawn point.
When choosing where to respawn the player, the two blocks to the immediate left and right of the head of the bed are considered first. Which block is chosen between the two corresponds to which direction the player was facing when they last interacted with the bed to set their spawn point; For example, a bed facing west will respawn the player on the south side of the bed if they are facing towards the north while setting their spawn point, and vice versa. If the player is perfectly aligned with the bed when the spawn point is set, the right side of the bed takes priority. Interacting with the bed again will still update which side of the bed is chosen for respawning, even if the location of the spawn point itself does not change.
Once a side is chosen, if the block immediately on the chosen side of the head of the bed is obstructed, the next block to be checked is chosen moving in a clockwise (right side) or counterclockwise (left side) direction around the bed. If all of the 10 blocks immediately adjacent to the bed are obstructed, the block above the head of the bed is checked, followed by the block above the foot of the bed. The player is always respawned facing the head of the bed, the same as for waking up.
For a location to be unobstructed, the block at the level of the bed must be air or non-solid (e.g. torches, but not glass) and there must be a space with a solid block below it and two non-colliding blocks for the player to stand in 0-2 blocks below the bed. It does not matter if the bed itself has blocks above it. Putting a slab one block above a bed can act as a two block tall space, as the bed is half a block tall. The bed never spawns the player directly below itself even if all other locations are obstructed. If a bed is obstructed, the player's spawn point is cleared after they respawn. That is, even if the bed is subsequently made usable again, the player continues to respawn at the world spawn until interacting with the bed again.
Specifically, when interacting with it, the location of the head of the bed is saved as the spawn point, and if a bed is in that space (whether it is the foot or the head) then the respawn works. This can be observed by reorienting the bed with its head in the same location. Interacting with it does not produce a "Respawn point set" message as the game doesn't change the saved spawn point. If a bed is reoriented so that its foot is in this space, it still functions on the next respawn, but it can also be interacted with to update the spawn point to the new head of the bed and cause a "Respawn point set" message. Attempting the reverse, reorienting the bed so that it overlaps the original location of the foot, results in a respawn at world spawn. However, the location of the foot of the bed is also saved. If the bed is moved so that part of it overlaps the original location of the head, it can be observed that the same locations need to be obstructed to stop spawning. It is possible to respawn 2 blocks away from the bed this way.

Bouncing
Falling onto a bed bounces any living entity with 75% of the impact velocity. The entity also takes less fall damage when bouncing on a bed. The entity's fall distance is set to 50% of the actual distance fallen, which results in the entity taking slightly less than half of the normal fall damage.
Baby villagers bounce on beds during the day.
If the player is falling while sleeping requirements are met, and presses use on a bed within reach before hitting the ground, the fall damage is delayed until the player wakes.
A player can bounce on a bed while another player or villager is sleeping on it without waking the player or the villager up.

Curing
Each bed in the vicinity of a zombie villager has a chance to speed up the process of curing the zombie villager. Iron bars (such as in a prison cell) also have this effect.

Placement
Beds require two blocks of floor space. Placement requires at least 2 blocks from the player's facing direction. When placed, the foot of the bed is placed on the block selected and the head of the bed on the block farther away from the player. In Bedrock Edition, beds require solid blocks below them when placed. However, the bed remains in place if its supporting blocks are later removed. They also cannot be placed on transparent blocks. In Java Edition, beds do not require supporting blocks and can be placed anywhere, provided there is enough room.

Explosions
See also: Tutorial:Ancient Debris § The bed method and Tutorial:Defeating the Ender Dragon § Beds

Because beds explode when a player attempts to sleep in the Nether or the End, they can be used as any other explosion, to demolish blocks or deal damage, with the advantage of being extremely cheap compared to TNT or end crystals, and being instantaneous. Explosions can be used, for example, to mine for ancient debris or to kill the ender dragon. The explosion has power 5.
In Bedrock Edition, beds do not explode if /gamerule respawnBlocksExplode is set to false.

Piston interactivity
Beds are destroyed when a piston tries to push them. They cannot be pulled by sticky pistons.

Sounds
Generic
Java Edition:

v
t
e wood sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.wood.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.816​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.wood.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.816​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.wood.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.wood.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.50.7516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.wood.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.016
Bedrock Edition:

v
t
e wood sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.woodsubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.8–1.0​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedplace.woodsubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.8​Axe stripsBlocksWhen an axe strips a log or wood block use.woodsubtitles.block.generic.hit​1.00.8​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.woodsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.230.5​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.woodsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.woodsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.31.0​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.woodsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.121.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.woodsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.181.0
 MCPE-189879

Unique
Java Edition

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​ExplosionBlocksWhen a player attempts to sleep while in the nether or the endentity.generic.explodesubtitles.entity.generic.explode​4.00.56–0.8416
Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksWhen a player attempts to sleep while in the nether or the endrandom.explode​ ?4.01.0
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierFormBlock tagsItem tags
Translation key White Bedwhite_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.white_bed
 Orange Bedorange_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.orange_bed
 Magenta Bedmagenta_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.magenta_bed
 Light Blue Bedlight_blue_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.light_blue_bed
 Yellow Bedyellow_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.yellow_bed
 Lime Bedlime_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.lime_bed
 Pink Bedpink_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.pink_bed
 Gray Bedgray_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.gray_bed
 Light Gray Bedlight_gray_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.light_gray_bed
 Cyan Bedcyan_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.cyan_bed
 Purple Bedpurple_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.purple_bed
 Blue Bedblue_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.blue_bed
 Brown Bedbrown_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.brown_bed
 Green Bedgreen_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.green_bed
 Red Bedred_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.red_bed
 Black Bedblack_bedBlock & Itembedsbeds
block.minecraft.black_bed
NameIdentifier
 Block entitybed

Bedrock Edition:

BedIdentifierNumeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key Blockbed26Block & Ungiveable Itemitem.bed
tile.bed.name
 Itembed418Item—
item.bed.black.nameitem.bed.red.nameitem.bed.green.nameitem.bed.brown.nameitem.bed.blue.nameitem.bed.cyan.nameitem.bed.silver.nameitem.bed.gray.nameitem.bed.pink.nameitem.bed.lime.nameitem.bed.yellow.nameitem.bed.lightBlue.nameitem.bed.magenta.nameitem.bed.orange.nameitem.bed.white.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Unavailable with /give command

NameSavegame ID
 Block entityBed

Metadata
See also: Data values

In Bedrock Edition, bed items use the following data values:


   DV
   Description


0
White Bed

1
Orange Bed

2
Magenta Bed

3
Light Blue Bed

4
Yellow Bed

5
Lime Bed

6
Pink Bed

7
Gray Bed

8
Light Gray Bed

9
Cyan Bed

10
Purple Bed

11
Blue Bed

12
Brown Bed

13
Green Bed

14
Red Bed

15
Black Bed

16
unused

Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  facingnortheastnorthsouthwestThe direction the head of the bed is pointing.The same direction the player faces when placing the bed.
occupiedfalsefalsetrueTrue when a player or villager is using the bed.
partfootfootheadThe half of the bed in the current block.
Bedrock Edition:

  NameMetadata Bits
  Default value
  Allowed valuesValues forMetadata Bits
  Description
  direction0x10x2001230123The direction the head of the bed is pointing.
0:Head facing South
1:Head facing West
2:Head facing North
3:Head facing East
head_piece_bit0x8truefalsetrue01If the current block is the head part.
occupied_bit0x4falsefalsetrue01True when a player or villager is using the bed.
Block data
A bed has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition:

See also: Block entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Block entity data
Tags common to all block entities see Template:Nbt inherit/blockentity/template

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherChange of SheetsDye your bed a different color.——Bronze
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Sweet DreamsSleep in a Bed to change your respawn pointLie down in a bed. The advancement is granted as soon as the player is in the bed, even if the player does not successfully sleep.
History



This section would benefit from the addition of more sounds. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable sounds to the section.The specific instructions are: Sounds before 14w33a

There is an associated page listing all historical changes related to the appearance and/or sounds associated with this feature in further detail than below; see /Asset history.
There is an associated technical blocks page for the internal item form of this block; see Technical blocks/Bed.
Development
September 16, 2010
Notch was considering adding beds as a block to reset spawn points, making up "some interesting economics" with this.November 26, 2011
Jeb mentioned that crying obsidian was intended to act as a block to reset spawn points as well.March 13, 2017
Jeb mentions colored beds for 1.12.24 May 2019
Bartosz Bok discusses that changing beds back to using the block model system (as was the case prior to 1.12) is a current backlog item, but that actually doing so would be a "pain in the ass".
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.3
  Added beds.

The only color for beds is red.

Beds can be crafted using any color combination of wool.

When a player goes to sleep, the game attempts to spawn up to 20 zombies, skeletons, or spiders in a 32x16x32 area centered on the bed. For each mob that spawns successfully, the game attempts to find a valid path from the mob to the player's bed; if one is found, the mob is teleported next to the bed and the player woken up without skipping to morning.

The ability to leave beds is currently only intentionally available in multiplayer. However, in singleplayer it is possible for the player to aim at the bed they are sleeping in by moving the mouse in the right way, and then break it, which will forcibly wake them up.

Trying to sleep in a bed in the Nether does nothing.1.4
Sleeping in a bed now resets the player's spawn position, though it does not work for most users. The spawn point unintentionally changes only if Leave Bed button (only available in multiplayer at the time) is clicked.1.4_01
Beds now set the player's spawn point as intended, both in singleplayer and in multiplayer.1.6Test Build 3
Trying to sleep in a bed in the Nether now causes the bed to explode.1.7
As blocks now pull textures from the expected places for model application, this has resulted in the bed texture shifting downward in terrain.png. No visual difference has resulted for the actual bed.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Bed explosions in the Nether now light nearby blocks on fire.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
The bottom textures of beds have been changed to the texture of the new oak planks from  to .Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
Beds no longer spawn monsters and the pathfinding logic has been removed. Trying to sleep when monsters are around now displays the message You may not rest now, there are monsters nearby, regardless of if the monsters can actually reach the player or not.

Trying to sleep in a bed in the End now causes the bed to explode.1.2.4release
Cats while in standing position now purposely go and sit on beds.

Spruce, birch, and jungle planks can now be used to craft beds.1.3.112w18a
As a result of singleplayer being changed to an internal server, the ability to leave beds is now available in singleplayer.1.513w05a
Beds now check their biome for detonation rather than just their dimension.1.7.21.7.1
Acacia and dark oak planks can now be used to craft beds.1.814w04a
    If a bed is set to render as the block inside of a minecart via commands or map editing, it now appears as this (previously it would be entirely invisible).14w29a
Beds now display the cracking animation on top and bottom.14w32c
It is now possible to step from a normal block to on top of a bed without jumping.14w33a
Beds now make sounds when placed, and play logical sounds when stepped on and broken.1.915w43a
Bed now generates inside igloos.16w06a
The player's body, hand and held item are now rendered while sleeping in bed.1.1116w32a
The messages "You can only sleep at night", "You may not rest now, there are monsters nearby", and "This bed is occupied" are now displayed on the action bar instead of in chat.16w33a
If the player is close enough to click on the bed, but not close enough to sleep in it, the message "You may not rest now, the bed is too far away" is now displayed.1.1217w06a
Neutral zombie pigmen no longer prevent the player from sleeping in a bed.17w15a
               Dyed beds have been added.

The "Bed" has been renamed to "Red Bed".

Beds can now only be crafted using wool of the same color.

 The texture of red beds has been changed. The top of the beds are no longer mirrored.

 Beds now appear 3D in the inventory.

 Beds now have 3D legs.

Beds have been made bouncy, though they do not completely reduce all fall damage.

Beds are now a block entity.17w17a
 The four legs of a bed are now each textured separately, and their model is different.


 The textures of beds have now also been changed.1.1317w47a
The different block states for the bed ID have been split up into their own IDs.

As part of The Flattening, the numeric IDs (26 for the block form and 355 for the item form) of beds have been removed.

Beds now require solid blocks below them, or they break into an item. Previously, a bed needed to be placed on solid blocks, but the blocks could later be removed.

Beds can no longer be placed with their foot part inside entities but can still be placed with their head part inside entities.18w07a
Sleeping in a bed is now important to keep phantoms from spawning.

A smooth transition is now applied to the camera when the player enters or leaves a bed.18w20a
Players in Creative mode can now sleep even if monsters are nearby.18w22a
Beds no longer require supporting blocks below them; they do not break into an item if said blocks are removed, and can be directly placed on top of non-solid blocks.pre2
The "You can only sleep at night" message when using a bed has been changed to "You can sleep only at night and during thunderstorms."1.1418w43a
                               The textures of all beds have been changed.

 The bottom textures of beds have been changed to new oak planks texture.18w44a
Cats can now sleep in empty beds or sit on their owner when their owner is sleeping.18w47a
 The bottom textures of beds have been changed to the new oak planks texture, once again.18w48a
Beds now generate in the updated plains villages.

Beds now have an accurate hitbox.18w49a
Beds now generate in the updated savanna villages and the new snowy tundra villages.18w50a
Beds now generate in the updated desert and taiga villages.19w08a
All mobs can now sleep in beds using commands.19w11a
Villagers now claim beds and sleep in them during the night.

Shepherd villagers now sell beds.

Third-person view now works properly while sleeping in a bed.1.1519w35a
If a player tries to sleep in a bed that is occupied by a villager, that villager is now kicked out of the bed.19w36a
Trying to sleep in a bed during the daytime now sets the player's spawn location to that bed.pre2
Successfully changing a spawn point using a bed now displays a message in chat.1.1620w06a
Crimson planks and warped planks can now be used to craft beds.20w12a
The message "Your home bed was missing or obstructed" has been changed to "You have no home bed or respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" due to the addition of the respawn anchor, used to set the player's spawn in the Nether.20w18a
The message "You have no home bed or respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" has been changed to "You have no home bed or charged respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" due to the fact that respawn anchors can be depleted.1.16.220w30a
Beds now prioritize the side of the bed the player or villager entered from and then spaces circling around the foot of the bed up to the head of the bed.1.1720w51a
Added gamerules for sleeping in multiplayer.1.1821w44a
Sleeping now resets the weather cycle only if it is currently raining or snowing.1.1922w11a
Mangrove planks can now be used to craft beds.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w42a
Bamboo planks can now be used to craft beds.1.19.322w43a
Bed explosions can now be properly blocked by shields.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Cherry planks can now be used to craft beds.1.20pre1
Beds of any color can now be dyed into any other color.1.20.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2123w45a
Beds now generate in trial chambers.1.21.224w33a
Beds in trial chambers intersections now have randomized colors.1.21.2ExperimentWinter Drop24w40a
Pale oak planks can now be used to craft beds.1.21.925w33a
Black and white smoke particles are once again shown when beds explode while trying to set the respawn point in the Nether or the End.26.2snap3
Beds are no longer block entities.

Beds no longer render their inner faces.[verify]snap8
Beds now bounce up entities falling onto them with 75% of the impact velocity instead of 66% to match Bedrock Edition.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.4.0
  Added beds.v0.5.0
Beds can now be obtained after activating the nether reactor.

 Added a Leave Bed button that lets the player exit the bed.

Beds now restore health when slept in.v0.7.0
 The texture of Leave Bed button has been changed.v0.9.0build 1
Beds no longer restore health in normal difficulty, making food a more required Survival-needed resource.

Added smooth lighting to beds.

 The Leave Bed button is now smaller.v0.11.0build 8
The lighting on beds has been improved.v0.12.1build 1
Tamed ocelots while standing now purposely go and sit on beds.

Beds are no longer available from the nether reactor.v0.16.0build 1
Beds now make a sound when placed, identical to blocks like stone.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
Beds are now generated in igloos.alpha 0.17.0.2
 The texture of Leave Bed button has been changed again.alpha 1.0.0.0
Sleeping now ends weather.1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
                             Added the other 15 colors of beds.

The "Bed" has been renamed to "Red Bed".

 The texture of red beds has been changed.

A new animation when sleeping has been added to beds.

Beds in igloos are now white in ice plains and brown in cold taigas.

Beds now bounce the player two blocks up, and have 3D legs.

Placement, stepping and breaking sounds for beds are now correctly wooden.alpha 1.1.0.8
                The textures of beds have been changed.Bedrock Edition1.4.0beta 1.2.14.2
Beds can now be waterlogged and require Water Breathing to sleep in.beta 1.2.20.1
Colored beds can now be turned into white beds by adding bleach. This works only if Minecraft Education features are turned on.1.6.0beta 1.6.0.1
Sleeping in a bed is now important to keep phantoms from spawning.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.8
Cats can now sleep in empty beds or sit on their owner when their owner is sleeping.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
Various beds now generate in the new villages.

Villagers can now sleep by occupying a bed, which prevent players from using it.

Igloos now generate with red beds.

Beds are now used to count the number of available houses in villages.

                The textures of all beds have been changed.1.11.0beta 1.11.0.4
Beds can now be bought from shepherd villagers.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.1
Players now succeed in attempting to sleep on villager-occupied beds, kicking the villager off.1.21.20Preview 1.21.20.21
 Bed screen (Experimental) toggle in Sleep screen has been updated to match Ore UI, available in preview only.

 The texture of Leave Bed button has been updated to match Ore UI.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.24
Sleep screen is released to the public and no longer in Bed screen (Experimental) toggle.release
Sleep screen is released to the public and no longer in preview only.1.21.60Preview 1.21.60.21
Changed wording for lowest number required for player sleeping to skip the night.26.0Preview 26.0.27
Camel husks, skeleton horses, zombie horses and zombie nautiluses no longer prevent the player from sleeping when nearby.26.40Preview 26.40.26
                The textures of all bed items have been changed.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education1.0
  Added beds.1.0.1
                             Added the other 15 colors of beds.

The "Bed" has been renamed to "Red Bed".
 The texture of red beds has been changed.

Beds now bounce the player two blocks up, and have 3D legs.1.0.27
Colored beds can now be turned into white beds by adding bleach.1.12
                The textures of all beds have been changed.1.21.91Preview 1.21.50.1
 Sleep screen has been updated to match Ore UI.

 The texture of Leave Bed button has been updated to match Ore UI.26.32Preview 26.30.0
Camel husks, skeleton horses, zombie horses, and zombie nautiluses no longer prevent the player from sleeping when nearby.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
  Added beds.TU7
Beds no longer spawn monsters and the pathfinding logic has been removed. Trying to sleep when monsters are around now displays the message You may not rest now, there are monsters nearby, regardless of if the monsters can actually reach the player or not.[is this the correct version?]TU12
Cats in standing position now purposely go and sit on beds, preventing players from using them.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
It is now possible to step from a normal block to on top of a bed without jumping.TU43CU331.361.361.36Patch 13
The sleeping animation while in beds has been changed.

Bed now generates inside igloos.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
                             Added the other 15 colors of beds.

The "Bed" has been now renamed to "Red Bed".

  The textures of red beds has been changed.

Beds are now dyeable and bounce the player two blocks up, and have a single 3D legs.

If the player is close enough to click on the bed, but not close enough to sleep in it, the message "You may not rest now, the bed is too far away" is now displayed.TU56CU471.551.551.55Patch 261.0.6
Beds in the Nether or the End no longer explode if "TNT Explodes" is disabled.

The description of beds has been updated due to different colors of beds now existing.TU60CU511.641.641.64Patch 301.0.11
The sleeping animation in beds has been changed again.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Sleeping in a bed is now important to keep phantoms from spawning.

Beds can now be waterlogged and require Water Breathing to sleep in.

A smooth transition is now applied to the camera when the player enters or leaves a bed.  1.83
The sleeping animation for beds has been reverted to how it was before 1.64.1.91
Various beds now generate in the new villages.

Villagers can now sleep by occupying a bed, which prevents players from using it.

Beds are now used to count the number of available houses in villages.

Beds can now be bought from shepherd villagers.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
  Added beds.1.9.19
                             Added the other 15 colors of beds.

The "Bed" has been renamed to "Red Bed".

 The texture of red beds has been changed.

Beds now bounce the player two blocks up and have 3D legs.
Issues
Issues relating to "Bed" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Beds explode in the Nether and the End because Notch found it was the easiest solution to dimension-unique respawning.
Jeb is "not a fan" of the mechanic, and removing it was discussed during the Nether Update.
If the player quits the game while sleeping, upon return the player wakes up beside the bed.
Using the /teleport command while another player is sleeping still teleports the sleeping player, but the player wakes immediately.‌[Java Edition  only]
If the player places a bed on ice, running over the bed acts like running over ice, similar to slabs.
When placed using the /setblock command, only one half of a bed is placed, because beds are two blocks long. A single half can be slept in like a whole bed.
Villagers can sleep in the Nether and the End without causing the bed to explode.
While the block state used to determine the half of a two-block block such as doors and double-tall flowers is called half, in the case of beds this is called part.
The red bed was the original default bed color. In Java Edition 1.12 and Pocket Edition 1.1.0 version of the game, the default color was changed to white.
Gallery
Screenshots



			A sleeping player in multiplayer



			The message that can be seen after a failed attempt to respawn at the spawn point set by a bed



			A crater created by attempting to sleep in the Nether



			A crater created by attempting to sleep in the End



			All the different color variants



			An unemployed villager and a butcher villager go to sleep, unaware of the zombies outside.



			A stack of beds



			A player being awakened by a zombie



			The message that can be seen when any players attempt to sleep during daytime



			A player going to sleep in a bed on the first day of a Minecraft world



			A bed in an abandoned village has its bottom half replaced by wheat crops due to a glitch



			The updated Bedrock Edition sleep screen in Bed menu


Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education



			The sleep screen in Bed menu in Bedrock Edition



			The sleep screen in Bed menu in Minecraft Education


Mojang images



			"Moments before disaster"


In other media



			The Sham, a villainous, sentient bed featured in the Campfire Tales Skin Pack



			The rainbow bed, a unique bed featured in Minecraft Earth



			Efe sleeping on a bed in A Tale of Two Friends



			Efe gets off bed, from the same short film



			Makena resting on a purple bed with a wolf, in A year in blocks



			Zuri sleeping on a green bed on top of a blast furnace and chiseled tuff, from the same video



			A cyan bed from 21263 The Badlands Mineshaft



			An apartment with Minecraft furnishing



			A duo dressed as a bed and Nether portal



			A cat on a bed



			A purple bed depicted in A Minecraft Movie



			Team Speedrunners shirt promo, featuring a bed exploding near the ender dragon










See also
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education UI refresh
References

 MC-192722 – Beds have no assigned tool

 MCPE-28723 – Exploding bed in the Nether!? – resolved as "Works As Intended". This is referenced in Java Edition when a player is killed by "Intentional Game Design".

 MC-146515 – Villagers can sleep in all dimensions – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MCPE-35802 – Attempting to use a waterlogged bed without the Conduit Power/Water Breathing effect will not give an error message

 MC-160479 – Attempting to use an obstructed bed gives an error message above the hotbar but attempting to use an obstructed chest or shulker box does not – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-66347 – Beds make incorrect sounds – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-11963 – bed hind legs not rendered – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-2208 – Blocks with special placement can be placed inside player / entity – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-123619 – When placing a bed or door, it does not check whether there is a mob or player in the second block

 MC-4090 – Bed Hit Box is Incorrect – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 MC-178336 – The message "You have no home bed or respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" doesn't make it clear that your respawn anchor might have been depleted – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-63340 – Sleeping always resets time until rain – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-200006 – Explosions from beds and respawn anchors can't be blocked by shields – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-165991 – TNT explosion no longer shows additional smoke particles since 1.15 Pre-release 1 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MCPE-10077 – "Incorrect sounds on beds" resolved as "Fixed".

 "duh"  – @Notch  on X (formerly Twitter), May 11, 2020, in response to "So you're telling me the "Inteded Game Design" should actually be "Sorry, I was too lazy to code"?"  – @NoahBandito  on X (formerly Twitter), May 11, 2020

 "Personally I am not a fan of this mechanic. When we did Nether Update we discussed removing it, but it has become a very iconic behavior and it's also used to defeat the ender dragon." – @jebox.bsky.social (Jens Bergensten) on Bluesky, June 2, 2026

Navigation