This section is missing information about: Verify that all of the contents of this page are, in fact, metadata variants, and not something else 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Contents

1 Blocks resulting from extreme data values

1.1 Seamless stone slabs
1.2 Six-sided blocks
1.3 Weird Piston
1.4 Granite, polished granite and diorite bells

1.4.1 Bell stand

1.5 Locked smoker, blast furnace, lectern, and barrel
1.6 Smokeless campfire
1.7 Overgrown wheat

2 References
3 Navigation

Blocks resulting from extreme data values
The majority of these blocks were likely never actually meant to exist in-game, and occurred only due to the game handling extreme metadata values as it would those in usually attainable ranges, resulting in strange blocks with traits arguably analogous to garbage data.

Seamless stone slabs
Main article: Seamless Stone Slab

This slab variant existed in the game at one point.

Six-sided blocks
Bedrock Edition had a handful of versions of "pillar"-type blocks which used side textures on all six sides. These were effectively removed in an unknown version, forcing them to appear identical to normal such pillars, either by changing their models to that of the normal y-axis pillar or just directly changing them (which method was utilized is unknown).






















Weird Piston
Main article: Six-sided Piston

The "six-sided piston" block existed for a period of time in Bedrock Edition, but with a much different appearance from the six-sided piston known from other editions.

Granite, polished granite and diorite bells

Upon their introduction to Bedrock Edition, bells using the textures of granite, polished granite and diorite also existed. They could only be placed by commands.
It is extremely likely that these were the result of the bell being incompletely programmed. The bell can face four directions, and at this point there were four different types of bell (the stone bell alongside these three), which would correspond to the four orthogonal facing directions. Since at this point granite and diorite were stored as data value of stone, it seems reasonable to expect that these would result from drawing from that data value of the used stone texture. Attempting to place a bell with data value 4 or above would fail; there were as a result no polished diorite, andesite or polished andesite bells, as these would not have any facing directions to correspond to. These bells automatically convert to rotated standing bells if a world containing them is updated to beta 1.10.0.3 or later.

Bell stand



This  section  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

The bell stand.
There had been an unused bell which consists of the stand without a bell. This bell cannot be rung, but it will drop a normal bell when broken.
It was merged into the normal version of the block in an unknown update.

Locked smoker, blast furnace, lectern, and barrel
There were also several unused blocks which were in a locked state. These blocks cannot be opened or used by the player (their GUI does not show up, but the player hand can still perform an action).​[more information needed]
It was merged into the normal version of the block in an unknown update.

Smokeless campfire
Campfires updated from beta 1.10.0 to 1.11.0 did not produce smoke particles because campfires in 1.10.0 had no functionality. Their difference in the code is not known.
It was merged into the normal version of the block in an unknown update.

Overgrown wheat

From Pocket Edition v0.4.0 Alpha - Pocket Edition v0.7.0 Alpha, wheat with invalid data values of 8-15 would result in a glitched texture. This could be done via the use of a hex editor.

References

 https://youtu.be/djvCj4tZdNM

Navigation