"Editor" redirects here.  For the character, see Editor (character).



This feature is exclusive to Minecraft for Windows. 



This article needs to be updated. 
Please update this article to reflect recent updates or newly available information. The talk page may contain suggestions.

Bedrock Editor

Author(s)

 Mojang Studios (Credits)
 Xbox Game Studios

Platform(s)

Written in

 C++Bedrock Codebase

Latest version

Stable: 26.40
Preview: 26.50.26

Release date

Preview: March 8, 2023
Stable: December 3, 2024

Size

Same as Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Preview.

Source available

No

Links

Documentation
GitHub Repository Website

{
    "title": "Bedrock Editor",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to File:Mojang Studios logo.svg article, displayed as 20px|link=Mojang Studios|alt=Mojang Studios logo) (link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios) <small>[https://minecraft.net/credits (Credits)]</small>\n* (link to File:Xbox Game Studios.svg article, displayed as 25px|link=Xbox Game Studios) (link to Xbox Game Studios article, displayed as Xbox Game Studios)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Windows wordmark.svg article, displayed as x20px|Windows|link=wikipedia:Microsoft Windows)",
            "label": "Platform(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:C++.svg article, displayed as x20px|C++|link=wikipedia:C++) (link to wikipedia:C++ article, displayed as C++)<br>Bedrock Codebase",
            "label": "Written in"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''Stable''': (link to Bedrock Editor_26.40 article, displayed as 26.40)<br>\n'''Preview''': (link to Bedrock Editor_26.50.26 article, displayed as 26.50.26)",
            "label": "Latest version"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''Preview:''' March 8, 2023<br>\n'''Stable:''' December 3, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "Same as ''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as Bedrock Edition)'' and ''(link to Minecraft Preview article, displayed as Minecraft Preview)''.",
            "label": "Size"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "<span style=\"white-space:normal\">Source available</span>"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://learn.microsoft.com/minecraft/creator/documents/editoroverview Documentation]<br>\n[https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor GitHub Repository Website]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Ore UI - \"Tutorial Start\" Image.png"
    ]
}

The Bedrock Editor, also referred to as Minecraft: Bedrock Editor or simply the Editor, is an in-game tool that can be used to edit worlds through projects. It is customizable through the use of scripting.

Contents

1 Launching
2 Usage

2.1 GUI

2.1.1 Action bar

2.1.1.1 Hotbar

2.1.2 World preview

2.1.2.1 Crosshair mode

2.1.3 Tutorial and What's New

2.2 World options

2.2.1 Navigation
2.2.2 Locate
2.2.3 Time of Day

2.3 Tools

2.3.1 Selection
2.3.2 paint brush
2.3.3 Pencil
2.3.4 Paste Preview
2.3.5 Line
2.3.6 Ruler
2.3.7 Layouts Editor
2.3.8 Layout Instance Editor
2.3.9 Smart Fill
2.3.10 Terrain
2.3.11 Extrude
2.3.12 Repeater
2.3.13 Summon
2.3.14 Entity Inspector
2.3.15 Workbench
2.3.16 Farm Generator
2.3.17 Block Inspector
2.3.18 Flood
2.3.19 Scale
2.3.20 Cinematic
2.3.21 Primitives
2.3.22 Custom Mesh

2.4 Chunk Management
2.5 Biome Data Assignment
2.6 Vibrant Visuals Settings
2.7 Dimensions
2.8 Layout Template Manager
2.9 Log Panel
2.10 Structures
2.11 Jigsaws
2.12 Test world
2.13 Export

2.13.1 Initial Play Settings
2.13.2 Advanced Settings
2.13.3 Cheats Settings
2.13.4 Publish to Realms

2.14 Settings
2.15 Keyboard Settings

2.15.1 Project
2.15.2 Core Contexts
2.15.3 Modal Tools

3 History
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Textures
5.2 Screenshots

5.2.1 Main menu
5.2.2 Create new project
5.2.3 Edit world

5.3 Projects tool mode
5.4 Editor entity

6 See also
7 External links

7.1 Documentation
7.2 GitHub
7.3 Minecraft.net
7.4 Other

8 Navigation

Launching
The Creator Tools section in the Minecraft Launcher
The Bedrock Editor uses the same app as Minecraft and Minecraft Preview, in the "Editor" state. It can be opened from the "Creator Tools" tab in the Bedrock Edition section of the Minecraft Launcher. A desktop shortcut can be created to launch the Editor directly without opening the Minecraft Launcher. This should be an internet shortcut with minecraft://creator/?Editor=true for the stable version, or minecraft-preview://creator/?Editor=true for Preview.
Opening the Bedrock Editor can also be done by pressing ⊞ Windows + R, and entering minecraft://creator/?Editor=true for the stable version, or minecraft-preview://creator/?Editor=true for Preview.
Bedrock Dedicated Server can also enable the Editor for clients. To launch BDS with the Editor, enter bedrock_server.exe Editor=true in a command prompt. This will create a new project on the server, and only works if the server doesn't contain any worlds. An existing project can be applied to a server by adding the project to the server's worlds folder and specifying the world name in server.properties. Only players on an Editor client can join compatible servers with a project to edit on the server.

Usage
For detailed information and tutorials, see the official documentation.The Editor's main menu
New main menu UI, based on Ore UI​[upcoming]
Using the tool starts with creating a new Project. A project is similar to a world, but a project is not "played" until it is exported, and stays in the initial creation state during editing, meaning that several game settings such as the bonus chest can still be enabled after editing. Achievements are always disabled for projects and worlds created with the project.
New projects can be created from the main menu. All existing projects are shown in the "Projects" list, with the options to edit a project, create a new project, or import a world file (.mcworld or .mcproject zip). The player can join multiplayer projects from the "Friends" tab or join external servers from the "Servers" tab. The settings icon in the top-right opens the same settings menu as in regular gameplay. Pressing a project in the list opens the editor for that world.
Creating a new project has the same options as a new world in Minecraft, with the exception of Hardcore mode and Marketplace add-ons. The world type option has one additional preset, "Void world", which generates an empty world across all dimensions with a small grass block platform in the Overworld.
Editing a project has the same options as the regular edit world screen (see World Options § Classic UI), but these options affect the world only in test mode or for exporting. The edit world screen allows add-ons and experiments to be enabled, which can't be done from the Editor. A project can also be exported as project file to import it in the Editor, as world file to import it in Minecraft, or as template to import its world settings and add-ons.

GUI
The GUI in Tool Mode
The Editor GUI uses Ore UI, and consists of several bars on the sides. Windows and pop-up bars can be closed and adjusted in scale and position towards the world preview. Several options and buttons have blue tooltips that appear when hovering over the option. These show hotkeys, a short description of the option, and sometimes a video explaining the feature.
The statistics bar at the bottom shows the camera's coordinates, the difference (Δ) in coordinates of the gizmo, the coordinates of the gizmo, the ID of the hovered block, and the ID of its biome.
The menu bar on the top has five tabs with options. Unless stated else, each of these buttons opens the respective window on the right side. See the respective sections below for more information about the functions.
File
File contains a list of actions and settings that handle the Project.

Test World
Export
Publish to Realms
Settings
Keyboard Settings
Save & Quit
Saves the project and returns to the main menu.
Edit
Edit contains a list of actions used to add and remove things from the world.

Undo (⎈ Control + Z)
Undos the latest action performed in the Editor.
Redo (⎈ Control + Y)
Reverts an undo action.
Cut (⎈ Control + X)
Copies the selected blocks/entities to the clipboard and removes them.
Copy (⎈ Control + C)
Copies the selected blocks/entities to the clipboard.
Delete (⌦ Delete)
Deletes the selected blocks/entities. Blocks are replaced with air.
Deselect (⎈ Control + D)
Deselects a selected area.
Fill (⎈ Control + F)
Fills the selected area with the block selected in the hotbar.
View
View contains a list of options to show menus in the Editor.

Game menu (⎈ Control + Q)
Closes the Editor GUI and opens the game menu. The game menu looks similar to the menu in regular Minecraft but the Marketplace, profile screen and Dressing Room are inaccessible.
Log Panel (⎈ Control + H)
Structures
Jigsaws
World
World contains a list of options that change the attributes of the world.

Pause Entities
Toggles to pause all entity movements and suspend their AI.
Navigation
Locate (⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + L)
Time of Day
Weather
Opens a sub-menu to set the current weather to clear, rain, or thunder.
Chunk Management
Biome Data Assignment
Vibrant Visuals
Dimensions
Opens a sub-menu to teleport the player to the Overworld, the Nether, the End, or available custom dimensions.
Help
Help contains a list of resources and information to teach about the Editor.

Tutorial
What's New
Documentation
Opens the official documentation page for the Editor.
Feedback
Opens the feedback post about the Editor.
Samples
Opens the Editor samples page on GitHub.
Action bar
The action bar is located below the menu bar and contains buttons on the left and right side. On both sides, a set of buttons can be selected for quick actions. If there are more buttons than space on one side, a button appears to switch between pages. Right-clicking a button or selecting the triangle in the bottom-right opens the button selection panel with an option to remove the button. Most of these buttons are also available from the menu bar above. The available buttons are:

Attach Debugger
Connects or listens to the script debugger, configurable in the settings. Connection status can be found in the Log Panel.​[more information needed]
Biome Data Assignment
Chunk Managment
Copy
Crosshair Mode
Cut
Dimensions
Export
Fill
Hotbars
Jigsaws
Keyboard Settings
Layout Templates
Locate
Navigation
Publish to Realms
Redo
Reload
Reloads all script files for behavior packs and refreshes UIs for all clients.
Settings
Structures
Test World
Undo
Vibrant Visuals
Hotbar
The block hotbar
The hotbars window
The Block Picker
In the middle of the action bar is the block hotbar, which is used for several placing and filling actions. A block in the hotbar can be selected using the 1-9 hotkeys, or by selecting a block. Double-clicking a slot opens a pop-up to pick a block.
The block picker shows in which block the slot changes, with a list of all blocks below. The list shows the inventory icon as well as the ID, and can be filtered with a searchbar above. The list can also be sorted by color, and the exact color can be picked with a HEX graphical color picker. There is also a recently used tab below.
The block picker allows to switch the hotbar slot to a list of blocks. Lists are shown in the "Hotbar" window on the right, per hotbar slot. When performing an action with a list, such as filling, the blocks will be randomly selected from the list. The weight of each block can be adjusted, and blocks can be added or removed to a list.
With the menu button next to the hotbar, a set hotbar can be saved to a name. Saved hotbars can be selected from this menu or with the arrow buttons next to the hotbar. A saved hotbar can be overwritten with the selected hotbar with the "Save to Hotbar" option. The "Hotbar" window on the right can be opened to change hotbars and lists.

World preview
The world preview can be highlighted with ⎈ Control + ↹ Tab (viewport focus). The camera can be moved by moving the mouse while holding right click. Horizontal movement is done through W, A, S, and D. Vertical movement is done through E (up) and Q (down).
Scrolling on the mouse moves the camera in the facing direction. The camera can be dragged over the world by holding the  Middle Mouse Button and moving the mouse.
Selecting blocks and areas can be done with the selection tool by left-clicking. See § Tools below for more information.

Crosshair mode
Crosshair mode can be enabled on the action bar or with ⎈ Control + ↹ Tab twice, and simply opens the world in regular Creative mode. Crosshair mode can be left by pressing Esc or ⎈ Control + ↹ Tab. All features from Creative mode are available, including the hotbar and Creative inventory, but not certain GUIs and commands. Additionally, the player can phase through blocks like players in Spectator mode.

Tutorial and What's New
The What's New window
Upon first launch, the player is welcomed with a "What's New" window and a tutorial. Both can be opened at any time from the menu bar.
The What's New window has a list of new features in the latest update. New features are marked with a batch notification until the player opens them, or checks the "Clear content badges" button.
The tutorial consists of several pop-ups with tasks. After completion of all tasks (marked with a checkbox), the next tutorial pop-up opens. This tutorial shows some information about the GUI, controls, and the selection and brush tools.

World options
Navigation
The Navigation panel with the map enabled
The Navigation panel is used for the location of the camera in the world previewer. At the top, the "Show Map" option enables a map preview. The map preview uses the same layout and colors as in-game maps, but it is always centered around the player, with a marker. The map size can be adjusted between 64×64, 128×128, and 256×256 blocks. The map can be refreshed with a button below.
The players current XYZ location is shown below the map. By entering different values for the location, the player can teleport to any coordinates.
Below the map is a list of players in the world showing the colors of their map markers. A button allows to teleport to a player's location.
The Navigation panel allows to store locations. By pressing the "+" button, a new location with a custom name can be added which defaults to the current coordinates. Saved locations show as markers on the map, with a customizable color using a HEX graphical color picker. A single location can be selected in the panel to edit it, teleport, or delete it.
On the bottom is a filter & sort bar which allows to search locations, sort them A–Z/Z–A, and multiselect to delete locations.

Locate
The Locate window
The Locate window, opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + L, allows to quickly perform the /locate biome command. A biome searchbar allows to quickly find a biome with the ID or display name.

Time of Day
The Time of Day Settings window
The Time of Day Settings are used to quickly change the current in-game time. The time can be set to any integer or clock value, depending on the clock type used. The daylight cycle option can also be changed here. Below, a time preset (e.g. noon, sunset, midnight) can be selected, or the time can quickly be adjusted with a slider.
See § Test world below for more information about specific time options.

Tools
Tools can be selected from the left toolrail.

Selection
Opened with ⎈ Control + S
paint brush
Opened with ⎈ Control + B
Pencil
Opened with ␣ Space
Paste Preview
Opened with ⎈ Control + V
Line
Opened with ⎈ Control + L
Ruler
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + R
Layouts Editor
Layout Instance Editor
Smart Fill
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + M
Terrain
Opened with ⎈ Control + T
Extrude
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + E
Repeater
Opened with ⎈ Control + R
Summon
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + S
Entity Inspector
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + I
Workbench
Opened with ⎈ Control + W
Farm Generator
Opened with ⎈ Control + P
Block Inspector
Opened with ⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + B
Flood
Scale
Cinematic
Primitives
Custom Mesh
Chunk Management
The Chunk Management window
The Chunk Management window allows to delete or regenerate entire chunks. Multiple regions can be added by inputting coordinates, or using the Selection tool. Selecting a region instantly teleports to a view of the region, and there is an option to delete it. The coordinates do not have to conform to chunk boundaries, but actions will always select the full chunks within the region, so it might extend outside of the selection.

Regeneration resets the chunks and applies the regular (or customized) world generation, deleting all altered blocks and enties inside.
"Exclude Region List" can be used to invert the selection and only keep the chunks that are in the region list.
There is also an option to regenerate the entire world, in all dimensions.
Delete simply deletes all blocks and entities and leaves a chunk hole behind.
Biome Data Assignment
Vibrant Visuals Settings
The Vibrant Visuals settings
Vibrant Visuals can be completely customized with resource packs, and the Bedrock Editor provides an interface to easily create Vibrant Visuals resource packs.
From the Vibrant Visuals Settings window, Vibrant Visuals can be enabled for the world previewer. Closing the window might reset some settings, so it is recommended to export the settings to the clipboard regularly. Vibrant Visuals settings are not saved for a project.
The Vibrant Visuals Settings has six tabs: Water, Global Lighting, Atmospheric Scattering, Color Grading, Cubemaps, Shadows, and Local Lights.

The water settings allow the water color and fog color to be changed with three particle effects. Water caustics can be enabled and adjusted in length, power, and scale. An additional feature called "Waves" can be enabled and customized. This is not enabled in the default Vibrant Visuals and creates detailed animated wave effects on water surfaces. Many settings, such as depth, frequency, pull, shape, and speed can be adjusted.
Global lighting settings allows for customization of global light sources, including the sun, moon, and End flashes. The color spectrum, illuminance, and orbital offset can be adjusted and is previewed with graphical projections. Non-directional light sources, including emissiveness, ambient lighting, and sky lighting, can be customized in saturation, color, and intensity, respectively.
Atmospheric scattering allows customization of some atmospheric effects, such as different sky colors. The strength, shape, and blending of scattering from directional light sources can also be adjusted.
Color grading changes how some color effects are changed as a post-processing effect. RGB values for different color grading aspects can be adjusted. The tone mapping operator can be selected from preset curves.
Cubemap textures are always rendered around the player and can be reflected by water. It can be affected by various types of lighting, which is customziable.
Shadow effects can be selected between the default "blocky" shadows and regular soft shadows. The texel size can be adjusted which changes the size of the shadow pixels.
Light settings for every block with configurations in the resource packs can be customized.
For more information about individual options and key frame graphs, see Vibrant Visuals § Customization.
All adjustments can be exported into a resource pack. The game automatically generates a resource pack which can be applied to the project, or other worlds without further modification.
Configurations per setting group can be assigned to every biome in the game (including custom biomes). Each setting group allows to create a configuration file, or modify existing ones, with a customizable namespace and name. To quickly import settings, or add more options to key frames or local lighting, the raw JSON contents of a configuration file can be imported.
Setting groups can be applied to multiple biomes using a separate biome config mapping window.

Dimensions
Layout Template Manager
Log Panel
The Log Panel
Structures
Jigsaws
Test world
The Test Settings
With the test world feature, the player can playtest the world with regular gameplay. Changes won't be saved (including options changed in the pause menu), and test world is only available in singleplayer. Cheats are enabled for test mode, and some settings can be changed before playing. The pause menu has an option to return to the Editor instead of leaving the game.

Option

Description

Default

Game Mode

The game mode the player spawns with, between Survival, Creative, and Adventure.

Survival

Difficulty

The difficulty of the world, between Peaceful, Easy, Normal, and Hard.

Normal

Spawn at Current Location

Whether the player spawns at the current location of the camera in the Editor, or at the world spawn.

Daylight Cycle

Changes the daylight cycle, between Normal, Always Day, and Lock Time.

Normal

Custom Time

Allows the current time to be changed to an integer when "Custom" is selected as time of day.

Time of Day

Allows the current time to be changed to a time of the day between Current Time, Day, Noon, Sunset, Night, Midnight, Sunrise, and Custom.

Current Time

Weather Cycle

Whether the weather cycle is enabled and weather can change randomly.

Weather

What type of weather is currently used, between Clear, Rain, and Thunder.

Clear

Show Coordinates

Whether the player's current coordinates are shown in the hotbar.

Skip Night by Sleeping

Whether the night can be skipped by sleeping in a bed.

Required Sleeping Players

The percentage of players in a bed required to skip the night.

100

Export
The Export settings
The project can be exported as a world file from inside the Editor. There are several export options, some of which can also be changed from the pause menu or edit world screen. Options exclusive to the Editor are listed here. World options that are usually disabled after world creation are also available, including Hardcore, Starting Map, and Bonus Chest. Add-ons or experiments cannot be changed.
The /project command can also be used to export the project, with the world settings defined in the edit world screen.
Export Type
Allows the file extension to be changed, influencing how the world is imported in the Editor or in Minecraft. This can only be set to regular "Playable World" for now.

Initial Play Settings

Option

Description

Default

World Spawn Point

Allows the world spawn to be changed with custom XYZ values, which can also be outside of the world. The button below can be used to set the world spawn to the current location of the camera.

X: 21 Y: 32767 Z: 118

Starting Time

Allows the time upon first launch to be changed to a time of the day between Custom, Day, Noon, Sunset, Night, Midnight, and Sunrise.

Custom

Clock Type

Allows the time upon first launch to be changed to an integer.

Minecraft Clock

Custom Time

Allows the time upon first launch to be changed to an integer.

Normal

Starting Weather

Allows the weather upon first launch to be changed to Current Weather, Clear, Rain, or Thunder.

Clear

Advanced Settings

Option

Description

Default

Limited Crafting

Whether players can craft only those recipes that they have unlocked.

Show Death Message

Whether a death message is shown in the chat when a player dies. Also affects whether a message is sent to the pet's owner when the pet dies.

Show Item Tags

Hides the "Can place on" and "Can destroy" block lists from item lore, as well as item lock indicators.

Cheats Settings
These settings are only available when cheats are enabled.

Option

Description

Default

Command Block Output

Whether operators should be notified when a command block executes a command.

Send Command Feedback

Whether command block output is shown in the chat.

Max Command Chain Length

The maximum length of a chain of commands that can be executed during one tick. Applies to command blocks and functions.

65535

Fire Damage

Whether fire damage is applied to players.

Freeze Damage

Whether freeze damage is applied to players.

Fall Damage

Whether fall damage is applied to players.

Drowning Damage

Whether drowning damage is applied to players.

Insomnia

Whether phantoms can spawn in the nighttime.

Show Border Effect

Whether border blocks display particles.

Function Command Limit

The maximum number of commands that /function can execute.

10000

The "Export" button below instantly exports the world to the regular Minecraft world list. All options can be reset to their default state with a button next to it.

Publish to Realms
The Publish to Realms window
Projects can be exported as worlds to owned Realms servers. The "Publish to Realms" window has the same exportation options as when exporting a world, and the Realm and world slot can be selected. "Download" downloads the world currently stored on that slot to the device, and "Publish" replaces the selected slot with the world.

Settings
The Settings
In addition to the game settings accessible from the main menu and the pause menu, some settings related to the Editor GUI can be changed here.

Option

Description

Default

Move Speed Multiplier

The movement speed of the camera in the world preview. Can be set between 1 and 10.

4

Project cursor through liquid

Whether the cursor hovers over blocks behind bodies of liquids, or selects the liquids.

Show Compass

Shows a compass in the world previewer, with the facing direction above. The compass shows which direction increases/decreases which coordinate value.

Show Toast Notifications

Whether toast notifications are shown while in the Editor.

Mute Music

Mutes all game music.

Mute Game Sounds

Mutes all other game sounds.

UI Scale

The scale adjustment of the Editor GUI.

100%

Font

The scale of the font in the Editor GUI.

100%

Theme

The theme used for the Editor GUI. Can be set to Dark, Light, Redstone, and High Contrast.


			Dark theme



			Light theme



			Redstone theme



			High Contrast theme


Dark

Night Vision

Enables the Night Vision effect for the camera in the world preview, without showing particles or the status indicator.

Show Invisible Blocks

Whether invisible blocks are visible.

Show Chunk Boundaries

Shows chunk boundaries.

The Jigsaws window
Keyboard Settings
The Keyboard Settings
Keybinds for almost all functions in the Editor can be customized. The Kyeboard Settings window can be opened only from the action bar, and lists all keybinds in several tabs. To change a keybind, select the input box and press a key to change it into that key. Right-clicking the keybind or clicking the button on the right clears the keybind. The second button on the right resets the keybind to the default state. Changes need to be saved with a button at the bottom, and all keybinds can be restored to their default state, or reset to the previously saved state.
Next to each keybind is an option to make the keybind "exclusive". This makes single-key actions activate only if no other modifiers are present, or if the specified modifier is used alongside the key. By default, all single keybinds are marked as exclusive.

Project

Action

Default

Description

Delete

⌦ Delete

Replace all blocks inside a selection with air blocks.

Redo

⎈ Control + Y

Redo a previous action.

Toggle Mode

⎈ Control + ↹ Tab

Toggle between viewport focus, UI focus, and Crosshair mode.

Undo

⎈ Control + Z

Undo a previous action

Core Contexts

Action

Default

Description

Tool Mode

Activate Ruler

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + R

Activates the Ruler tool.

Block Inspector

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + B

Activates the Block Inspector tool.

Brush Paint

⎈ Control + B

Activates the Brush Paint tool.

Clear

⎈ Control + D

Clears Selection volume.

Copy

⎈ Control + C

Copys Selection to clipboard.

Cut

⎈ Control + X

Copys Selection to clipboard and clears the volume.

Entity Inspector

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + I

Activates the Entity Inspector tool.

Extrude

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + E

Activates the Extrude tool.

Farm Generator

⎈ Control + P

Activates the Farm Generator tool.

Fill

⎈ Control + F

Fills Selection volume with the currently selected block or block list in the hotbar.

Line

⎈ Control + L

Activates the Line tool.

Locate Biome

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + L

Activates the Locate Biome tool.

Open Chat Window

/

Opens the chat window to send messages or use commands.

Paste

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + V

Pastes clipboard at cursor position.

Paste Preview

⎈ Control + V

Activates the Paste Preview tool.

Pencil

␣ Space

Activates the Pencil tool. When Pencil is active, toggles between Brush Paint and Pencil.

Reload

Unassigned

Reloads all script files for behavior packs and refreshes UIs for all clients.

Repeater

⎈ Control + R

Activates the Repeater tool.

Select Hotbar (1-9)

1-9, respectively

Selects the respective slot of the hotbar. If the hotbar slot is already selected, this key opens the block picker.

Selection

⎈ Control + S

Activates the Selection tool.

Show Game Menu

⎈ Control + Q

Displays the pause menu, opened in Crosshair Mode.

Show Log Panel

⎈ Control + H

Opens the log panel at the bottom of the screen.

Smart Fill

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + M

Activates the Smart Fill tool.

Summon

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + S

Activates the Summon tool.

Terrain

⎈ Control + T

Activates the Terrain tool.

Viewport

Cursor Orbit Left

Z

Rotates the camera around the cursor in left direction.

Cursor Orbit Right

C

Rotates the camera around the cursor in right direction.

Decrease Fly Speed

⇧ Shift + Q

Decreases the multiplier to fly speed of the camera in Tool Mode. Minimum multiplier of 1.

Fly To Cursor

G

Moves the camera to the location of the non-air block the cursor is on. If the cursor is on an air block, the camera moves 100 blocks forward.

Fly To Selection

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + F

Moves the camera to the location of the nearest Selection volume.

Increase Fly Speed

⇧ Shift + E

Increases the multiplier to fly speed of the camera in Tool Mode. Maximum multiplier of 10.

Move Back

S

Moves the camera backwards in Tool Mode.

Move Down

Q

Moves the camera downwards in Tool Mode.

Move Forward

W

Moves the camera forwards in Tool Mode.

Move Left

A

Moves the camera left in Tool Mode.

Move Right

D

Moves the camera right in Tool Mode.

Move Up

E

Moves the camera upwards in Tool Mode.

Selection Orbit Left

⇧ Shift + Z

Rotates the camera around Selection in left direction.

Selection Orbit Right

⇧ Shift + C

Rotates the camera around Selection in right direction.

Workbench Primary Action

+ on numpad

Performs the action that is currently set to primary in the Workbench tool.

Workbench Quaternary Action

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + + on numpad

Performs the action that is currently set to quaternary in the Workbench tool.

Workbench Secondary Action

⇧ Shift + + on numpad

Performs the action that is currently set to secondary in the Workbench tool.

Workbench Tertiary Action

⎈ Control + + on numpad

Performs the action that is currently set to tertiary in the Workbench tool.

Modal Tools
The following keybinds are only available when the corresponding tool is activated.

Action

Default

Description

Brush Paint

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Brush Mask

M

Cycles through brush mask modes (block filters).

Cycle Cursor Control Mode

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Move Cursor Back

↓ Down

Moves the cursor backward.

Move Cursor Down

⇟ Page Down

Moves the cursor downward.

Move Cursor Forward

↑ Up

Moves the cursor forward.

Move Cursor Left

← Left

Moves the cursor to the left.

Move Cursor Right

→ Right

Moves the cursor to the right.

Move Cursor Up

⇞ Page Up

Moves the cursor upward.

Nudge Offset

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key.

Nudges the offset of the brush in the direction of the move key. Individual move keys are identical to the keys for "Move Cursor".

Paint

⏎ Return

Paints blocks into the world by holding this button and moving the cursor.

Entity Inspector

Clear Selection

⎈ Control + D

Deselects currently selected entity.

Line

Add to Selection (volume)

⌥ Alt + S

Adds current preview to existing selection volume.

Clear Selected

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + ⌫ Backspace

Removes selected line points.

Clears All

⎈ Control + ⌫ Backspace

Removes all line points.

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Cursor Control Mode

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Decrease Horizontal Weight

⇧ Shift + ← Left

Decreases horizontal weight of the line.

Decrease Vertical Weight

⇧ Shift + ↓ Down

Decreases vertical weight of the line.

Delete

⌦ Delete

Deletes all blocks selected by the line tool.

Fill

⎈ Control + F

Fills blocks along the placed points of the line tool.

Increase Horizontal Weight

⇧ Shift + → Right

Increases horizontal weight of the line.

Increase Vertical Weight

⇧ Shift + ↑ Up

Increases vertical weight of the line.

Move Cursor

Respective move key

Moves the cursor in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Move Selected

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key.

Moves the selected control points in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Select All

⎈ Control + A

If one or more points are not selected, this selects all points on a line. If all points are selected, this deselects all points on a line.

Paste Preview

Clear Preview

⎈ Control + D

Removes the clipboard item from the cursor.

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Cursor Control Mode

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Move Cursor

Respective move key

Moves the cursor in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Move Origin

⎈ Control + respective move key

Moves the origin point in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Nudge Offset

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key

Nudges the offset of the preview in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Paste At Cursor

⏎ Return⎈ Control + V

Pastes the preview at cursor position.

Rotate Preview Clockwise

R

Rotates the preview clockwise 90 degrees.

Rotate Preview Counter Clockwise

⇧ Shift + R

Rotates the preview counter clockwise 90 degrees.

Toggle Mirror X

X

Mirrors the preview along the X axis.

Toggle Mirror Z

Z

Mirrors the preview along the Z axis.

Pencil

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Brush Mask

M

Cycles through brush mask modes (block filters).

Cycle Cursor Control Mode

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Move Cursor

Respective move key

Moves the cursor in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Nudge Offset

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key

Nudges the offset of the pencil in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Selection

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Brush Mask

M

Cycles through brush mask modes (block filters).

Cycle Cursor Control Mode

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Grow Selection

⇧ Shift + respective move key

Increases the size of the marquee selection in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Hollow Selection

Unassigned

Creates a hollow selection volume.

Make Additional Selection

⇧ Shift + ⏎ Return

Adds an additional selection volume to the world.

Make Selection

⏎ Return

Adds a selection volume to the world.

Move Cursor

Respective move key

Moves the cursor in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Move Selection

⌥ Alt + respective move key

Moves the selection volume in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Nudge Offset

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key

Nudges the offset of the selection volume in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Shrink Selection

⎈ Control + respective move key

Decreases the size of the marquee selection in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Trim Selection (Bounds)

Unassigned

Reduces the selection so the bounds are touching at least one non-air block on each side.

Trim Selection (Remove Air)

Unassigned

Removes all air blocks from a selection.

Summon

Clear

⎈ Control + D

Deselects selected entity.

Delete

⌦ Delete

Deletes selected entity.

Move Selected

Respective move key

Moves the selection entity in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Terrain

Cycle Block Target Mode

B

Cycles through block target modes (block or face).

Cycle Brush Mask

M

Cycles through brush mask modes (block filters).

Cycle Cursor Mask

T

Cycles between cursor control modes.

Move Cursor

Respective move key

Moves the cursor in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Nudge Offset

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + respective move key

Nudges the offset of the brush in the direction of the move key. See Brush Paint above for individual move keys.

Switch Terrain Mode

⇧ Shift + F⇧ Shift + D⇧ Shift + U

Switches between the different terrain modes (flatten, smoothen, roughen).

History
Main article: Bedrock Editor version history



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.Add a short description about development.

Trivia
In the first build (0.3), a link referenced as an example scripting pack was jokingly put in the code. The link redirects to Rick Astley's song "Never Gonna Give You Up".
Gallery
See also: Category:Bedrock Editor videos

Textures



			Default project thumbnail



			Flat project thumbnail



			Void project thumbnail


Screenshots
Main menu



			Projects tab



			Servers tab


Create new project



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab



			The "Experiments" tab


Edit world



			The edit screen for a project


Projects tool mode



			The tool "Selection" tab



			The tool "Brush Paint" tab



			The tool "Pencil" tab



			The tool "Paste Preview" tab



			The tool "Line" tab



			The tool "Ruler" tab



			The tool "Smart Fill" tab



			The tool "Terrain" tab



			The tool "Extrude" tab



			The tool "Repeater" tab



			The tool "Summon" tab



			The tool "Entity Inspector" tab



			The tool "Workbench" tab (Options)



			The tool "Farm Generator" tab



			The tool "Block Inspector" tab


Editor entity
Main article: Map Marker


			The Location Pointer Idle entity



			The Location Pointer Selected entity



			The Map Marker entity



			The Ruler entity



			The Ruler Idle entity


See also
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition UI refresh
Add-on
Resource pack
Behavior pack
External links
Documentation
Editor Overview
Installation Guide
Tutorial
Action Bar
Vibrant Visuals
Keyboard Inputs
Paste Preview
Tool Mode
Workflow
World Options
Building Editor Extensions
More topics
Script API
Editor API

GitHub
Minecraft Editor
Editor Extension Starter Kit
Extension Samples

Minecraft.net
Editor Feedback
How to Get the Minecraft: Bedrock Editor

Other
Discord channel
Navigation