For other uses, see Bee (disambiguation).

Bee




Adult in Java Edition

Adult in Bedrock Edition

Baby in Java Edition

Baby in Bedrock Edition





Adult in Java Edition

Adult in Bedrock Edition

Baby in Java Edition

Baby in Bedrock Edition





Adult in Java Edition

Adult in Bedrock Edition

Baby in Java Edition

Baby in Bedrock Edition





Adult in Java Edition

Adult in Bedrock Edition

Baby in Java Edition

Baby in Bedrock Edition



Health points

10HP

Behavior

Neutral

Mob type

AnimalArthropod

Attackstrength

Melee:
Easy: 2HPNormal: 2HPHard: 3HP

 Venom:Normal: Poison I for 10 sec (HP)Hard: Poison I for 18 sec (HP × 7)

Hitbox size

Adult:Height: 0.5 blocksWidth: 0.55 blocks
Baby:Height: 0.25 blocksWidth: 0.275 blocks

Speed

0.6

Spawn

Naturally generated Bee Nests

Usable items

Flower   (except closed eyeblossom)
Mangrove Propagule
Flowering Azalea
Flowering Azalea Leaves
Cherry Leaves
Pink Petals
Wildflowers
Spore Blossom
Cactus Flower
Chorus Flower
Lead
Golden Dandelion   (baby only)

{
    "title": "Bee",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "10<span class=\"hidden-alt-text\">HP</span><span class=\"nowrap mc-hearts\"><span class=\"iconbar pixel-image nowrap\" style=\"--icon-offset:-1px;\" title=\"5  hearts\">(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)(link to File:Heart (icon).png article, displayed as 9px|link=|alt=❤️)</span></span>",
            "label": "(link to Health article, displayed as Health points)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Neutral",
            "label": "Behavior"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EntitySprite animal.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Animal|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Animal article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Animal</span>)</span><br><span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EntitySprite arthropod.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Arthropod|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Arthropod article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Arthropod</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob type article, displayed as Mob type)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Attack<br/>strength"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''Adult:'''<br>Height: 0.5 blocks<br>Width: 0.55 blocks<br>\n'''Baby:'''<br>Height: 0.25 blocks<br>Width: 0.275 blocks",
            "label": "(link to Hitbox article, displayed as Hitbox size)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.6",
            "label": "(link to Attribute#Movement_speed article, displayed as Speed)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Naturally generated <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BlockSprite bee-nest.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Bee Nest|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Bee Nest article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Bee Nests</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Mob spawning article, displayed as Spawn)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Usable items"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Bee Spawn Egg"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Bee.gif",
        "Bee BE.gif",
        "Baby Bee JE2.gif",
        "Baby Bee BE2.gif",
        "Bee with nectar.gif",
        "Bee with nectar BE.gif",
        "Baby Bee with nectar JE2.gif",
        "Baby Bee with nectar BE2.gif",
        "Bee (angry).gif",
        "Bee (angry) BE.gif",
        "Baby Bee (angry) JE2.gif",
        "Baby Bee (angry) BE2.gif",
        "Bee with nectar (angry).gif",
        "Bee with nectar (angry) BE.gif",
        "Baby Bee with nectar (angry) JE3.gif",
        "Baby Bee with nectar (angry) BE2.gif"
    ]
}

A bee is a flying arthropodan neutral mob that lives in a bee nest or beehive, and fills it with harvestable honey using nectar it gathers from flowers. Attacking a bee, or interfering with its home without proper precautions, causes it and all nearby bees to attack using their stingers. If a bee attacks something, it will lose its stinger and eventually die.

Contents

1 Spawning

1.1 Natural generation
1.2 Saplings

2 Drops

2.1 On death
2.2 Breeding

3 Behavior

3.1 Pollinating
3.2 Housing
3.3 Attacking
3.4 Breeding

4 Sounds
5 Data values

5.1 ID
5.2 Entity data

6 Achievements
7 Advancements
8 History

8.1 Java Edition
8.2 Bedrock Edition
8.3 Data history

9 Issues
10 Trivia

10.1 Publicity

11 Gallery

11.1 Renders

11.1.1 Idle
11.1.2 Animations

11.2 Screenshots
11.3 Mojang images
11.4 Concept artwork
11.5 Textures
11.6 In other media

12 See also
13 References
14 External links
15 Navigation

Spawning
Bees are the only arthropod mob that can spawn in any difficulty including Peaceful.

Natural generation
Naturally generated bee nests generate with 2-3 bees in them.
Naturally-generated birch, oak, mangrove, and cherry trees have equal chances to generate with a bee nest, depending on the biome:

Biome

Chance

JE

BE

Meadow

100%

PlainsSunflower PlainsCherry Grove

5%

Mangrove Swamp

5%

4%

Flower Forest

2%

3%

ForestBirch ForestOld Growth Birch Forest

0.2%

0.035%

Saplings
Birch, cherry, and oak trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of any 1- or 2-block tall flowers, flowering azalea, cherry leaves, flowering azalea leaves, mangrove propagule, spore blossom, pink petals, or chorus flower have a 5% chance of having a bee nest containing 2–3 bees.
Mangroves grown from mangrove propagules have a 1% chance of having a bee nest containing 2-3 bees. Unlike birch, cherry and oak trees, no flowers are required for a bee nest to generate.

Drops
On death
Upon death, adult bees drop 1–3XP experience when killed by a player or a tamed wolf. Like most other baby animals, killing a baby bee yields no experience.

Breeding
When two bees breed and produce an offspring, 1–7XP is dropped.

Behavior
Bees do not fly (like ghasts or the ender dragon), but instead hover a few blocks above the ground similar to bats and parrots.
Bees are considered arthropods and take increased damage from the Bane of Arthropods enchantment. They also take 1HP damage every half second if they stay in water for more than 20 game ticks (1 second). Bees do not take damage from sweet berry bushes.
Bees can be attached to a lead, even when angered. They can still attack while attached. A lead that attaches any other entity to a bee breaks when the bee enters its hive.
Bees usually venture up to 22 blocks from their beehive to collect nectar from a viable plant or to attack someone. Bees can venture farther away if necessary.
A bee can fly horizontally and vertically upward through scaffolding but does not fly downward. A bee does not fly through an open trapdoor or regular door on its own (a bee can be led through a door with a flower) but babies can fly through the gap above a fence gate in a 1×2 doorway.
Despite being flying mobs, bees can destroy turtle eggs when on top of them.

Pollinating
Bees leave their nest during the day. They fly around their nests and are attracted to flowers (except closed eyeblossoms), flowering azaleas, flowering azalea leaves, mangrove propagules, pink petals, cherry leaves, spore blossoms, chorus flowers, cactus flowers, and wildflowers, which are the valid plants for the bee to gather nectar from. Bees can gather nectar from wither roses but receive the wither effect. As a result, they can die.
Bees can also gather nectar from open eyeblossoms, but get poisoned as a result; they completely ignore golden dandelions and closed eyeblossoms, and are unable to gather nectar from them.
Bees also completely ignore flowers in flower pots.
After circling a flower for more than 400 game ticks (20 seconds), a bee collects nectar. However, if the bee gets damaged, it ceases its efforts to collect nectar. A bee carrying nectar has nectar spots on its abdomen and drops nectar particles to fertilize plants below the bee.
Bees that have nectar may pollinate pitcher crops‌[Bedrock Edition  only], wheat crops, potato crops, carrot crops, beetroot crops, melon stems, sweet berry bushes, pumpkin stems, cave vines, and torchflower crops that they fly over. When one of these plants gets pollinated, it advances to another growth stage, similar to using bone meal. To pollinate a plant, a bee must be 1 to 2 blocks directly above the plant and must have a valid home hive. A bee can fertilize plants 10 times each time they have nectar. There is an approximately 5% chance each tick to attempt fertilization.
Afterward, the bee flies back into its hive/nest to make honey. It takes about 2 minutes for the bee to do this.

Housing
A bee going into a bee nest.
See also: Tutorial:Honey farming

Bees live together in colonies and take any bee nest or beehive that has enough space as its home. One bee nest/beehive can house up to 3 bees. Homeless bees search for empty beehives by wandering around generally in a northwest direction. Bees can enter a beehive from any side, but exit only from the front. One-way bee-gates can be made by using this mechanic.
Bees return to their nest when it rains and during the night. This behavior extends to biomes that don't rain, such as the desert. They stay in their nest or hive for at least 2400 game ticks (2 minutes) before coming back out. Bees in a nest/hive retain their data (health, name, etc.).
Breaking a nest or hive without Silk Touch drops nothing or an empty hive respectively, releasing all bees contained inside. If the nest or hive is harvested using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch, the bees are contained in the dropped item and can exit the nest/hive when it is placed again.
When a bee that has nectar enters and then leaves its nest or hive, the honey level of the nest/hive is increased by one; there is a 1% chance it is increased by two. When the honey level of that hive reaches 5, the player can harvest honeycombs or honey bottles using shears and empty bottles respectively. The honey level resets back to 0 when a honeycomb or honey bottle is harvested.
Because there is neither daylight cycle nor weather in the Nether and the End, bees work without resting in these dimensions. This behavior is distinct from that of the villagers, which follow their daily routine according to the time in the Overworld, regardless of which dimension they are in.

Attacking
Main article: Damage
All bees nearby are angered when an individual bee is attacked (unless the bee attacked is killed in one hit), honey or honeycombs are collected (unless a campfire is placed under the nest), or a bee nest/beehive is destroyed. Even destroying newly-placed uninhabited beehives anger nearby bees. Hitting or walking on a beehive does not anger bees; only destroying it angers them. When destroyed, a beehive releases any bees that it contained. If the beehive is destroyed with a Silk Touch tool, bees kept within the hive remain neutral, while those outside the hive also remain neutral.

The Invisibility effect does not cause stingers in stung players to disappear.
Bees attack and swarm the player as a group when angered, and the eyes of angered bees turn red. Collecting a honeycomb or a honey bottle from a nest or hive causes the bees that are currently in that nest or hive to leave and swarm the player unless a campfire is placed within five blocks below the hive. Bees attack only once, similar to llamas, and non-aggressive pandas.
Bees do not deal any damage in Peaceful difficulty and are completely passive. They fly outside the beehive and search for flowers as usual.
If the player deflects a bee's attack with a shield, the bee continues attacking until it succeeds in hitting the player.
When a bee's attack on a player succeeds, the player is poisoned. A bee loses its stinger after a successful attack, cannot attack further and does not retreat to its nest (even at night), and dies approximately one minute later. This can be delayed with potion effects (Regeneration/Resistance/Absorption) that have a 255 potency.
It is possible to (quickly) breed at least one angered bee with another, even if it or they had stung and lost the stinger. However, they remain angered and still die later due to being stingerless.
Bees also swarm and attack other mobs when damaged, for example, if a skeleton accidentally shoots a bee, the bee will sting a player.
Bees become neutral if they fail to land a hit on their target until anger counter runs out. Anger duration is randomly selected between 20 and 39 seconds, inclusive.



			The stinging animation; the bee can remain upside down for longer periods of time if a distance is kept.



			Prior to stinging



			After stinging


In Java Edition, a bee's stinger is visible on the player as a small black dot after the bee successfully attacked.






Breeding
Main article: Breeding
Bees follow players holding any 1- or 2-block tall flowers (except closed eyeblossoms and golden dandelions), mangrove propagules, flowering azaleas, flowering azalea leaves, cherry leaves, pink petals, wildflowers, spore blossoms, cactus flowers or chorus flowers. If the player is standing still and being followed by bees, the bees go toward the player, face the player, and rest on the ground. They do this until the player moves.
If bees are given any of the blocks listed above (except open eyeblossom and wither rose), they enter love mode and pair up to create baby bees, granting the player 1-7 experience. The parent bees have a cooldown of 5 minutes (6000 game ticks) before they can be bred again. Babies take 20 minutes (1 in-game day) to grow up. The growth of baby bees can be accelerated by feeding them flower types (except those that cannot cause love mode); each use reduces the remaining time by 10%. However, bees' growth timer and breeding cooldowns are frozen while working in a hive; thus, when rapidly growing a population, it may be desirable to temporarily remove the hives.
Wither roses and open eyeblossoms cannot be used for breeding bees or growing baby bees. Feeding a bee a wither rose inflicts it with the Wither effect for 2 seconds (40 game ticks), while feeding a bee an open eyeblossom inflicts it with Poison for 1.25 seconds (25 game ticks). Closed eyeblossoms and golden dandelions cannot be used to lead, breed or grow bees; in the latter case, feeding them to baby bees instead toggles age-locking as with other baby mobs.

Sounds
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Bee buzzesFriendly MobsWhile a bee is passive and moving horizontallyentity.bee.loopsubtitles.entity.bee.loop​varies  0.98–1.14(Baby: 1.54–1.7) 6​Bee buzzes angrilyFriendly MobsWhile a bee is hostile and moving horizontallyentity.bee.loop_aggressivesubtitles.entity.bee.loop_aggressive​0.8 0.98–1.14(Baby: 1.54–1.7) 10​Bee stingsFriendly MobsWhen a bee stings somethingentity.bee.stingsubtitles.entity.bee.sting​1.01.0/0.816​Bee diesFriendly MobsWhen a bee diesentity.bee.deathsubtitles.entity.bee.death​0.40.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7)16​Bee hurtsFriendly MobsWhen a bee is damagedentity.bee.hurtsubtitles.entity.bee.hurt​0.40.8–1.2(Baby: 1.3–1.7) 16​Bee buzzes happilyFriendly MobsWhile a bee is collecting pollenentity.bee.pollinatesubtitles.entity.bee.pollinate​0.81.012
 loop1 and 2 are multiplied by 0.6; loop3 and 4 are 0.65; loop5 is 0.7 and 0.75

 Multiplied by the bee's horizontal velocity (capped at 0.5) × 1.2

 The bee's horizontal velocity (capped between 0.7-1.1 (Baby: 1.1-1.5)), linearly interpolated between 0.7 and 1.1 (Baby: 1.1 and 1.5)

 Can be multiplied by 1.0 or 1.2 for each sound

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Bee diesFriendly MobsWhen a bee diesmob.bee.deathsubtitles.entity.bee.death​0.60.9–1.1 (Baby: 1.4–1.6)​Bee hurtsFriendly MobsWhen a bee is damagedmob.bee.hurtsubtitles.entity.bee.hurt​0.60.9–1.1 (Baby: 1.4–1.6)​Bee buzzesFriendly MobsWhile a bee is passive and moving horizontallymob.bee.loopsubtitles.entity.bee.loop​0.61.0 (Baby: 1.5)​Bee buzzes angrilyFriendly MobsWhile a bee is hostile and moving horizontallymob.bee.aggressivesubtitles.entity.bee.loop_aggressive​0.61.0 (Baby: 1.5)​Bee buzzes happilyFriendly MobsWhile a bee is collecting pollenmob.bee.pollinatesubtitles.entity.bee.pollinate​0.851.0 (Baby: 1.5)​Bee stingsFriendly MobsWhen a bee stings somethingmob.bee.stingsubtitles.entity.bee.sting​0.60.8–1.0 (Baby: 1.3–1.5)
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierEntity tags
Translation key Beebeearthropodbeehive_inhabitorsfall_damage_immunefollowable_friendly_mobssensitive_to_bane_of_arthropods
entity.minecraft.bee
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID
FamilyTranslation key Beebee122
arthropodbeemobpacifiedentity.bee.name
Entity data
Bees have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition:

Main article: Entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Entity data
Additional fields for mobs that can become angry see Template:Nbt inherit/angerable/template
Additional fields for mobs that can breed see Template:Nbt inherit/breedable/template
Tags common to all entities see Template:Nbt inherit/entity/template
Tags common to all mobs see Template:Nbt inherit/mob/template
[Int] CannotEnterHiveTicks: Time left in ticks until the bee can enter a beehive. Used when the bee is angered and released from the hive by a player, but the hive is smoked by a campfire.
[Int] CropsGrownSincePollination: How many crops the bee has grown since its last pollination. Used to limit number of crops it can grow.
[Int Array] flower_pos: Block location, as 3 integers, of the flower that the bee is circling.
[Boolean] HasNectar: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the bee is carrying nectar.
[Boolean] HasStung: 1 or 0 (true/false) - true if the bee has stung a mob or player.
[Int Array] hive_pos: Block location, as 3 integers, of the bee's hive.
[Int] TicksSincePollination: Number of ticks passed since the bee's last pollination.

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherBee our guestUse a Campfire to collect Honey from a Beehive using a Bottle without aggravating the bees.—15BronzeTotal BeelocationMove and place a Bee Nest, with 3 bees inside, using Silk Touch.—30SilverIt SpreadsKill a mob next to a catalystKill any mob that drops experience near a sculk catalyst, with the sole exception of the ender dragon. Mobs that drop no experience are ignored for this achievement.10Bronze
Achievements that apply to all mobs:

IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherOverkillDeal nine hearts of damage in a single hit.Damage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have nine hearts of health overall.30BronzeOver-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.20SilverMob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor stands and players also count for this achievement as they are technically mobs.10Bronze

Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)It SpreadsKill a mob near a Sculk CatalystKill any mob that drops experience near a sculk catalyst, with the sole exception of the ender dragon. Mobs that drop no experience are ignored for this advancement.Bee Our GuestUse a Campfire to collect Honey from a Beehive using a Glass Bottle without aggravating the BeesUse a glass bottle on a beehive or bee nest while not angering the bees inside.The Parrots and the BatsBreed two animals together
Breed a pair of any of these 27 animals:

Armadillo
Axolotl
Bee
Camel
Cat
Chicken
Cow
Donkey
Fox
Frog
Goat
Hoglin
Horse
Llama
Mooshroom
Mule
Nautilus
Ocelot
Panda
Pig
Rabbit
Sheep
Sniffer
Strider
Trader Llama
Turtle
Wolf

A mule must be the result of breeding a horse and a donkey for this advancement as they are not breedable together. Other breedable mobs are ignored for this advancement.Total BeelocationMove a Bee Nest or Beehive, with 3 Bees inside, using Silk TouchBreak a bee nest, with 3 bees inside, using silk touch. Contrary to the in-game description, a beehive cannot trigger the advancement.Two by TwoBreed all the animals!
Breed a pair of each of these 26 animals:

Armadillo
Axolotl
Bee
Camel
Cat
Chicken
Cow
Donkey
Fox
Frog
Goat
Hoglin
Horse
Llama
Mooshroom
Mule
Nautilus
Ocelot
Panda
Pig
Rabbit
Sheep
Sniffer
Strider
Turtle
Wolf

A trader llama does not count as a llama, and a mule must be the result of breeding a horse and a donkey for this advancement as they are not breedable together. Other breedable mobs can be bred, but are ignored for this advancement.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:

IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)AdventureAdventure, exploration and combatKill any mob, or be killed by any living entity.A Throwaway JokeThrow a Trident at something.Note: Throwing away your only weapon is not a good idea.Hit a mob with a thrown trident.Take AimShoot something with an ArrowUsing a bow or a crossbow, shoot a mob with an arrow, tipped arrow, or spectral arrow.Mob KabobHit five mobs in the same Charge attack using the Spear.Armor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.ArbalisticKill five unique mobs with one crossbow shotArmor Stand and Mannequin also count for this advancement.This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.Over-OverkillDeal 50 hearts of damage in a single hit using the MaceDamage can be dealt to any mob, even those that do not have 50 hearts of health overall.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1519w34a
        Added bees and baby bees.19w35a
Bees now try to avoid water.

Bee nests now spawn less frequently, making bees rarer.

Breeding bees now counts toward the "Two by Two" advancement.19w36a
Bees are now affected by the Bane of Arthropods enchantment.

Bees are now able to gather pollen from lilac, rose bush, and peony flowers.

 The textures of bees have been tweaked. The gradation part for picking up the color has been removed and the translucent pixels are now fully transparent.

bee_angry_nectar now has same nectar pattern as bee_nectar, which has changed the textures from  to .

Bees no longer stop flying after reaching the player they are following.19w45a
Bees now search up to 10 blocks away from itself in all directions to find a nest/hive to claim.19w46a
Bees now exit beehives only from the front.1.15.2pre1
Bees no longer anger when a nearby nest/hive is destroyed using a Silk Touch tool.

Bees now remember how many crops they have pollinated.

Bees no longer stay in the hive/nest forever after riding a minecart or boat.1.1620w10a
Firework damage now provokes bees.20w12a
The maximum distance a bee can wander away from its home hive when randomly wandering has been reduced to around 22 blocks.1.1721w13a
Bees now see flowering azalea and flowering azalea leaves as flowers.1.1922w11a
Bees now see mangrove propagule as flowers.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.20pre1
Bees now see cherry leaves, pink petals, and torchflowers as flowers.1.20.223w33a
Bees now see spore blossom and chorus flower as flowers.1.20.524w11a
Adjusted their flying behavior to keep them from overshooting their position when flying up and down.1.21.224w33a
Bees now wander around randomly for less time after exiting a nest/hive.
If a bee has a known nest/hive, it travels less far from it, thus being less likely to get lost.
Significantly increased the amount of time a bee can take to return to a known nest/hive before it gives up trying to return home.
Bees are now a lot less likely to get stuck on corners or when they are close to a nest/hive they are trying to return to.
Bees are also now a lot less likely to try and pathfind to a flower they cannot reach.1.21.424w44a
Bees now get the Wither effect when fed with wither roses, and the Poison effect when fed with eyeblossoms.24w45a
Bees are no longer attracted to closed eyeblossoms.
Bees can no longer interact with closed eyeblossoms.24w46a
Bees no longer get poisoned when they touch a closed eyeblossom.
Leashed bees no longer enter beehives or bee nests.1.21.525w02a
Are now attracted to, and can be bred using wildflowers.25w06a
Are now attracted to, and can be bred using cactus flowers.1.21.925w34a
Bees no longer hide in their hive in the End when it is raining in the Overworld.26.1snap5
 Added golden dandelions, which can be used to prevent baby bees from growing up.snap6
    The model and textures of baby bees have been changed.26.2snap5
Hitbox sizes of both baby and adult bees updated to match Bedrock.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.14.0beta 1.14.0.1
  Added bees.

  Bees and baby bees can become angry and attack the player.

  Bees and baby bees can gather nectar from flowers, and show the nectar on them after doing so.

  Bees and baby bees that have nectar can become angry and attack the player.1.16.0beta 1.16.0.63
Bees no longer fly faster when swarming a player or mob.1.17.0beta 1.16.230.50
Bees are now attracted to flowering azalea and flowering azalea leaves.beta 1.17.0.56
Bees no longer gather nectar from sweet berry bushes.1.20.60Preview 1.20.60.25
Bees no longer take damage when moving through sweet berry bushes.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.28
Bees now get the Wither effect when fed with wither roses.
Bees can no longer be tempted or collect nectar from closed eyeblossoms.
Feeding bees open eyeblossoms now applies the poison effect.26.10Preview 26.10.21
    The model and textures of baby bees have been changed.

Added golden dandelions, which can be used to prevent baby bees from growing up.
Data history
Java Edition1.20.524w06a
Changed bee entity data:
Changed [NBT Compound / JSON Object] FlowerPos (with [Int] x, [Int] y and [Int] z) to [Int Array] flower_pos.
Changed [NBT Compound / JSON Object] HivePos (with [Int] x, [Int] y and [Int] z) to [Int Array] hive_pos.
Issues
Issues relating to "Bee" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Bees were made to be half a block in size because Mojang considered this size to be the cutest.
In Java Edition, bees pollinate only the top half of sunflowers.
In reality, juvenile bees are helpless, worm-like larvae, not smaller versions of adults.
Also in reality, bees collect both nectar and pollen by pollinating flowers. The pollen is used as a primary food source by the bee colony, but has little direct importance to the formation of honey, which is made from the nectar and serves as another food source. Also, in real life, bees are scared of smoke and don't exit the nest or hive.
However, bees losing their stingers and dying after attacking the player is consistent with real bees, as in reality their stingers are barbed and attached to vital organs, so the stinger gets stuck and causes fatal injuries to the bee once it tries to fly away and the stinger detaches.
Publicity
Within the Minecraft community, bees are commonly used as a symbol of LGBTQ pride. In 2026, this was used as the basis for the Hive of Harmony add-on.
Gallery
Renders
Idle



			A bee



			A bee with nectar on it



			An angry bee



			An angry bee with nectar on it


Animations



			A bee flying in Java Edition



			A bee flying in Bedrock Edition



			A bee stinging



			A bee flying in Bedrock Edition without its bobbing animation (this state cannot been seen in game)



			A bee bobbing in Bedrock Edition without its flying animation (this state cannot been seen in game)




			A baby bee flying in Java Edition



			A baby bee flying in Bedrock Edition



			An angry baby bee flying in Java Edition



			An angry baby bee flying in Bedrock Edition




			A baby bee with nectar flying in Java Edition



			A baby bee with nectar flying in Bedrock Edition



			An angry baby bee with nectar flying in Java Edition



			An angry baby bee with nectar flying in Bedrock Edition


Screenshots



			A naturally generated bee nest in a village in a Superflat world



			A tree with a bee nest in the center of a player-made garden of crops



			A bee gathering nectar



			Bees attacking a llama



			A bee in a forest


Mojang images



			Bees on leads



			A bee



			Bees in a flower forest



			The inside of a bee


















Concept artwork



			Old bee concept artwork and design iterations



			An unreleased bee texture and model



			A concept of a bee during development



			An old bee design from Henrik Kniberg's video



			Concept art for bee-themed items in the character creator



			A recreation of one of the bees



			Ditto


Textures



			Bee texture file



			Bee nectar texture file



			Angry bee texture file



			Angry bee nectar texture file



			Bee stinger texture file



			Baby bee texture file



			Baby bee nectar texture file



			Angry baby bee texture file



			Angry baby bee nectar texture file


In other media



			Artwork



			Artwork of a beehive on oak with bees around it



			Bees in promotional artwork for the Buzzy Bees Update



			A Bee in Caves & Cliffs: Part I update artwork



			Bees in banner for Education Edition 1.14.31



			Artwork of a bee pollinating a cornflower



			Bees in one of the Minecraft backgrounds for Microsoft Teams



			Officially licensed bee plush



			Lego Minecraft minifigure



			"Craft Without Limits," an official T-Shirt design featuring a bee



			"Bee Pocket," a shirt design similiar to Craft Without Limits, but with a pocket



			"I ❤️Minecraft," an official hoodie design featuring two bees



			A woman holding an officially licensed bee moodlight



			Bee Friender, a skin featured in the Builders & Biomes skin pack



			Secondary Bee Friender



			Bee Jumper



			Bee Shirt!



			A bee in the Plastic texture pack



			The potato bee from 24w14potato



			Ari with several bees in the Buzzy Bees section of 15 Year Journey



			Bee in A Minecraft Movie



			A bee waving hello with its wings



			A render of the bee waving hello



			Bee figure of Flippin' Figs



			Bee pixel art



			Angry bee



			A bee as it appears in the Minecraft Movie live event



			A bee plush on a couch with a plushes of Steve, a creeper, and an axolotl in the background























			A bee as it appears in Minecraft Dungeons



			A social media post featuring bees retextured as various pride flags






See also
Bee Nest
Beehive
Honey Bottle
Honeycomb
References

 MC-249937 – Propagules grown without a flower nearby can generate bee nests in the mangrove tree – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "Minecraft Snapshot 19w36a"     – Minecraft.net, July 3, 2019.

 MC-167148 – Bees take damage upon contact with water – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-248332

 MC-159396 – Bees target wither roses and die – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-168267

 MCPE-109956

 MC-159560

 MC-159743

 MC-111498 – Fireworks and water bottles damage don't make neutral mobs angry or hostile – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-249147 – Bees pollinate and follow players holding the mangrove propagule (sapling) – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-260051

 MC-214126 – Bees don't pollinate themselves with spore blossoms or chorus flowers – resolved as "Fixed".

 "MINECON Live 2019"  – Minecraft on YouTube, September 28, 2019

 "minecraft bee is trans"  – @JasperBoerstra (Jasper Boerstra) on X (formerly Twitter), June  4, 2021

 "Minecraft is all about creating a world where you can BEE YOURSELF.Pride isn’t just about showing up. It’s about choosing to live openly, visibly, and fully. Pride endures because you do. 🏳️‍🌈"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), June 25, 2026

External links
"Mob Menagerie: Bee"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, September 15, 2023.
Navigation