This article is about JSON-based data-driven modding APIs.   For the similar system in Java Edition, see Data pack.   For the parent APIs for modding, see Add-on.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Editing the behavior of a creeper through JSON-based data-driven components.
The behavior pack system is a data-driven framework used to define behaviors, characteristics, and logic of various things in a Minecraft world.

Contents

1 Overview
2 Usage

2.1 Settings
2.2 Marketplace behavior packs

3 Contents

3.1 Directory structure

4 Internal behavior packs
5 Videos
6 History
7 See also
8 References
9 External links

9.1 Official documentation
9.2 Official tutorials
9.3 Tools and libraries
9.4 Unofficial resources
9.5 Templates

10 Navigation

Overview
Behavior pack serves as the foundational layer for many aspects of the game, dictating entity behaviors, loot tables, spawn rules, item behaviors, item recipes, biome characteristics, world generation, and much more. These definitions are written in JSON files, which are organized in multiple folders by their features. This system allows users to override and modify certain features in the base game, or add unique features with their own behavior pack. Behavior packs are often used in conjunction with resource packs as part of an add-on, which enable them to use custom resources, such as models, animations, textures, sounds, and more.
Behavior pack provides a component-based system that makes up most entities (and other game objects) in the game by describing their unique properties and behaviors — like health, collision box, movement, mob behaviors, and physics — through multiple components. These components are hard coded in the game, but are commonly shared among entities, and can be used extensively to create or modify existing entities in a behavior pack. Molang can be used to quickly determine dynamic values from other objects or calculations. A similar feature in Java Edition would be entity attributes, but they only store numeric properties of entities compared to components, which may store other multi value properties.
The component-based system is also used to define custom items, blocks, and biomes. There are four sets of components that define behaviors for different game objects: entity components, item components, block components, and biome components.

Usage
The behavior packs tab in the Create New World screen.
Similar to resource packs, behavior packs can be created and imported in Bedrock Edition. Users can download external behavior packs with the .mcpack file extension, if the game's platform allows file import feature. When these files are opened, they are automatically imported into the behavior_packs folder in com.mojang without accessing the file system. Behavior packs can also be placed manually in the development_behavior_packs folder. Each behavior pack must either be a sub-folder or a .zip file.
One or more behavior packs can be applied to a world from the Create New World and Edit World screens. These behavior packs will be imported into the world files, and are kept when exporting the world. Players joining a multiplayer world with behavior packs get an option to download only the required assets from the behavior pack, or all assets. The game loads behavior packs based on the order of the packs on the list. The bottom-most pack loads first, then each pack placed above are loaded sequentially.
Custom behavior packs permanently disable achievement unlocking for the world. Custom behavior packs cannot be applied to worlds on Realms, but worlds uploaded to Realms or Bedrock Dedicated Server keep the behavior packs applied to the world.
In Bedrock Dedicated Server, behavior packs also can be stored outside of worlds. Packs need to be enabled in the world_behavior_packs.json file in a world file.
Behavior packs cannot be edited while the game is active, except for the packs in the development_behavior_packs folder. They will update themselves when joining a world or changing active behavior packs.

Settings
Behavior packs and resource packs can contain custom settings that affect features in the pack. Settings need to be specified in manifest.json, with the options to create an on/off toggle, or a slider with specific values. The settings menu for custom and Marketplace behavior packs can be opened with a button next to the pack button in the edit world screen, and all settings affect the whole world. Custom labels for each setting can be applied, which support text formatting.
How each setting affects the behavior pack can be modified with scripting.
The settings menu can also be used to change the memory tier, which affects the sub-packs being used. The memory tier can be set to any specified value from the device's memory tier and lower. Sub-packs are behavior packs within the root of the behavior pack, with the same directory structure. They can be added to the pack in manifest.json.

Marketplace behavior packs
Add-ons and worlds from the Marketplace often contain or consist entirely of a behavior pack. These packs are stored internally and can't be accessed from com.mojang. Players can only access Marketplace behavior packs or play on worlds with behavior packs applied when they own the pack, by purchasing it in the Marketplace or by owning the Marketplace Pass. Which packs a player owns is stored in the online player profile, so behavior packs can only be accessed when signed in. Marketplace packs can be applied the same way as custom resource packs, and also to Realms, but not to worlds in external servers.
When a player joins a multiplayer world or Realm with Marketplace packs, the player is offered to download these packs to apply them, even when the player does not own the pack.
Marketplace behavior packs update automatically depending on the "Auto Update Unlocked Packs" settings, or can be updated manually from the purchase screen.

Contents



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Directory structure

 name or  name.zip
 manifest.json
 pack_icon.png: The picture to display next to the behavior pack in-game.
 sub-pack: A behavior pack with the same directory structure inside the behavior pack. Multiple sub-packs can be used, and need to be specified in  manifest.json.
 animation_controllers
 entity
 entity_animation_controller.json
 entity_controller.json
 animations
 entity_animations.json
 blocks
 block.json
 biomes
 biome.biome.json
 cameras
 presets
 identifier.json
 dimensions
 dimension.json​[upcoming: BE 26.50]
 entities
 entity
 entity_animation_controller.json
 entity.json
 features
 feature.json
 feature_rules
 feature_rules.json
 dialogue
 scene_dialogue
 scene.json
 manifest.json
 functions
 entity
 entity_function.mcfunction
 tick.json
 item_catalog
 crafting_item_catalog.json
 items
 item.json
 loot_tables
 entities
 entity.json
 loot_table.json
 recipes
 recipe.recipe.json
 spawn_rules
 entity_spawn_rules.json
 structures
 structure.mcstructure
 texts
 languages.json
 en_US.lang
 languagecode_COUNTRYCODE.lang
 trading
 villager_trades.json
 worldgen
 processors
 processor.json
 structure_sets
 structure_set.json
 structures
 structure.json
 template_pools
 template_pool.json

 File may be inside a directory.

Internal behavior packs
Most entities, biomes, loot tables, and various things from the base game are defined by the vanilla behavior pack, which is built inside the game itself and can be found at game directory\data\behavior_packs. Mojang Studios releases the Bedrock Add-On Sample Files with every new update of Bedrock Edition, which provide the latest vanilla behavior and resource packs from the game.
Multiple internal behavior packs exist for different situations. Each experiment has its own behavior pack, in addition to Minecraft Education features and Minecraft Preview. Each behavior pack contains the same structure and assets as custom behavior packs, defined for the whole game. Some packs also have an icon or description, which is not visible in-game.
Bedrock Editon supports backward-compatibility for add-ons and old worlds. This is done for the vanilla and chemistry behavior packs since 1.14 and 1.20.50 respectively, with the regular behavior pack supporting the latest version before. Each update with changes to features defined in behavior packs has its own behavior pack, with all the features that changed. Some Marketplace add-ons can lock a world in an older version by disabling internal behavior packs from higher versions.

File name

Pack icon, name, and description

Description

chemistry

Resources for the "Minecraft Education features" cheat setting. Includes several features from the Chemistry Update in Minecraft Education. Multiple versions of this pack are available to support backwards-compatibility.

editor

Resources for Bedrock Editor, applied when the Editor is enabled upon launch. Contains five unique entities exclusive to the Editor, some textures for the GUI, and the main script file which can be customized.

experimental_creator_cameras

Experimental Creator Cameras

Contains a camera preset for the "Experimental Creator Cameras" experiment.

experimental_vanilla_shapes

Vanilla Voxel Shapes
Experimental behavior pack for vanilla voxel shapes

Contains vanilla voxel shapes for the experiment, at this point nothing.

experimental_villager_trade

Villager Trade Rebalancing

Contains trade tables for the Villager Trade Rebalancing experiment, as well as different loot tables for mineshafts, ancient cities, desert pyramids, jungle pyramids, and pillager outposts.

experimental_y_2026_drop_1

Drop 1 of 2026Experimental behavior pack for Drop 1 of 2026 content

Adds features for the Tiny Takeover, including a name tag recipe and some changes to baby mobs.

experimental_y_2026_drop_2

Drop 2 of 2026Experimental behavior pack for Drop 2 of 2026 content

Adds features for Chaos Cubed, including the sulfur caves, sulfur cube, cinnabar, and sulfur.

server_editor_library

 Server Editor Library
Library for building server driven Editor UI

Contains scripts for the Editor when used on Bedrock Dedicated Server.

server_library

 @minecraft/server TS Library
A BP containing all the @minecraft/server typescript code.

Contains typescript code for the Editor. Only available in Minecraft Preview.

server_ui_library

 @minecraft/server-ui TS Library
A BP containing all the @minecraft/server-ui typescript code.

Contains scripts for the UI in the Editor. Only available in Minecraft Preview.

vanilla

All resources for the default Minecraft game. Multiple versions of this pack are available to support backwards-compatibility.

Videos
Tutorials from the official Minecraft Creator Channel
























History
 For add-on major milestones and scripting related additions and changes, see Add-on § History.

August 12, 2016
The concept of add-ons was hinted at in a post by Searge on August 12, 2016, stating "There will be news about the API at Minecon." The next day it was confirmed by Grum to be a modding API for Bedrock Edition (formerly called Pocket Edition, or MCPE), and at MINECON 2016, the plan and roadmap for the development of add-ons were outlined.Pocket Edition Alphav0.16.0
Added user-created behavior packs. These allow the player to change files coded in JSON to change how the game works.Pocket Edition1.0.4alpha 1.0.4.0
Introduced a new add-on format; older add-ons would automatically update
The models for the shulker and ender dragon became editable using add-ons.alpha 1.0.4.1
Added the Storage screen in Settings to manage worlds, resource packs, and behavior packs.
Custom texts in add-ons no longer required restarting the game to work.1.0.6
Fixed several add-on issues, including snow golem pumpkin head scaling and dependent add-ons being properly applied when replacing a Realms world.1.1.1
Updated resource and behavior packs on https://minecraft.net/addons, and updated documentation
Fixed several mobs and entities loading properly with behavior packs.1.1.3
Updated resource and behavior packs; all behavior components and AI goal parameters were added to the documentation.Bedrock Edition1.7.0
Fixed several behavior-pack issues, including projectile shooting offsets, movement behavior when all movement components were removed, and floating navigation behavior on flying mobs.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.8
Added /function and /reload for behavior packs
Added minecraft: prefix for /summon to separate vanilla and add-on entities
Allowed creators to add their own custom mobs, particles, and more without replacing vanilla content.[verify]1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
Added JSON-based mob events and behavior scheduler.
Fixed several resource-pack and scripting issues affecting custom names, custom UI loading, particles, spawn events, filters, and entity validation.1.12.0beta 1.12.0.2
Added several new commands related to add-ons and mapmaking.
Added minecraft: prefix for /give to separate vanilla items and add-on items.
Added custom particles and animations without being linked to entities.
Added several preset data-driven particles and animations.
Added custom blocks through Scripting and additional JSON scripting (and only placed by commands).
Added custom items with add-ons.[verify]
Added custom biome generation via behavior packs.
Added a screen to view content log errors.
Enabled content logging on Bedrock Dedicated Servers.
Updated demo pack.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.9
Added data-driven items for turtle lightning interactions, pufferfish puffed states, and brewing stand potion recipes.1.14.1beta 1.14.0.51
Added the /gamerule showtags command to hide item tags in the UI.1.16.0beta 1.15.0.51
Made most attack, slime, and swim goals data-driven.
Made tree generation, wither skull attacks, item sprites, and drowned data-driven.beta 1.16.0.57
Fixed an issue with custom brewing recipes.
See also
Mod
Commands
Data pack
Resource pack
References

 "Entity Behavior Introduction"     – Microsoft Learn, September 19, 2023.

 "Introduction to Loot Tables"     – Microsoft Learn, March 6, 2025.

 "Data-Driven Spawn Rules"     – Microsoft Learn, November 8, 2023.

 "Custom Items"     – Microsoft Learn, September 18, 2024.

 "Recipe Introduction"     – Microsoft Learn, April 19, 2024.

 "Biome JSON and Overview"     – Microsoft Learn, April 10, 2025.

 "Intro to Entities BP" (§ Components)    – Bedrock Wiki, June 8, 2025.

 "Item Documentation - Item Components"     – Microsoft Learn, October 10, 2024.

 "Block Documentation - Block Components"     – Microsoft Learn, November 22, 2024.

 "Creating a Pack with Custom Settings"     – Microsoft Learn, August 1, 2025.

 "Building Sub-Packs"     – Microsoft Learn, August 28, 2025.

 "There will be news about the API at Minecon. I'll talk about the things I'm working on and what our plans are. But no more details for now."  – @SeargeDP (Michael Stoyke) on X (formerly Twitter), August 12, 2016

 "the MCPE on, would be nice to say that too."  – @_grum (Erik Broes) on X (formerly Twitter), August 13, 2016

External links
Official documentation
Addons JSON Documentation
Animation JSON Documentation
Biome Documentation
Block JSON Documentation
Entity JSON Documentation
Features JSON Documentation
Item JSON Documentation
Molang Documentation
Recipe JSON Documentation
Schema Documentation
Official tutorials
Getting Started With Minecraft Add-Ons
Introduction to Behavior Packs
Tools and libraries
Commonly Used Tools
Minecraft Creator Tools
Unofficial resources
Bedrock Wiki
Templates
Bedrock Add-On Sample Files
Navigation