This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Legacy Console Edition, Minecraft Education and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1

Skins

24

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

BE: November 9, 2015
LCE: February 25, 2016
EE: June 28, 2016
3DS: September 13, 2017

Website page

Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1 in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "24",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' November 9, 2015\n*'''LCE:''' February 25, 2016\n*'''EE:''' June 28, 2016\n*'''3DS:''' September 13, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=57dfb793-29cb-4faf-acd9-bc0200ad108c Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1 in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1 is a skin pack themed around the inhabitants of the tundra, forest and desert biomes. In January 2026, the skin pack was delisted from the Marketplace in Bedrock Edition, though it is still available in Legacy Console Edition on some platforms. The skin pack can still be obtained on Bedrock Edition if purchased on Legacy Console Edition.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition
3.3 Minecraft Education
3.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Promotional images

5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Tundra Tamer

Jacketed figure wearing predominately white, with a large hat.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Tundra Archer

Masked figure wearing blue and green winterwear.

Tundra Brawler

Scantily clad figure with visible muscles, jeans, blue gloves, and a pale wolf hat.

Tundra Brewer

Red haired person with a professional outfit.

Tundra Engineer

Goggled person with two green straps on their chest.

The basis for Rudi in Minecraft Mini-Series.

Tundra Griefer

Mischievous looking figure with a unibrow, bluish green hood, and a white poncho.

Tundra Hunter

A visibly scarred figure with a green tunic and icicle-like white jacket.

The basis for Sacha in Minecraft Mini-Series.

Tundra Stray

Seemingly completely frozen body.

Predates the stray mob.

Forest Griefer

A cheerful looking figure wearing an oak log for a helmet.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Forest Archer

A person camouflaged to oak leaves.

Forest Brawler

A muscular figure with a beard, exposed chest, and mohawk.

Forest Brewer

A red haired, intimidating figure with a long beard.

Bears a resemblance to Ivor.

Forest Engineer

Blonde person with goggles.

Forest Hunter

Brown haired person with visible eyelashes, wooden shoulder pads, a crown of leaves, and a leaf-like dress or tunic.

Forest Tamer

A muscular person with pigtails, brownish red gloves, and a sash holding several items.

Forest Woodbeast

Creature seemingly made out of wood.

Desert Tamer

Blonde figure with hair blending into a hood, with a beige shirt, suspenders, and green pants.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Desert Archer

A figure wearing what appears to be a scarf, with a quiver on their back.

Desert Brawler

A figure wearing tattered, warm colored clothes such as an orange headwrap.

Possess yellow eyes that blend into their sclera.

Desert Brewer

A bald figure with a very pale complexion and robes styled after the desert pyramid.

Desert Engineer

A pink skinned person wearing a headwrap, goggles, and an unbuttoned shirt.

Desert Griefer

A figure with a brown beard and a green fannypack.

Desert Hunter

A bandanna-wearing figure in a green jacket.

Desert Husk

A dried out, decaying body with tattered yellow clothes.

Predates the husk mob.

Quotes
“Check out these new looks, influenced by the Forest, Tundra, and Desert biomes. All of these skins have been inspired by the world of Minecraft and the different ways you play!„ — Xbox 360 Marketplace description
“Dress as a native of the Tundra, Forest, or Desert!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.13.0build 4
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1.v0.13.0build 5
The Tundra Stray skin is given a custom model.[dubious]Bedrock EditionJanuary 23, 2026
Delisted Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU33CU211.241.241.24Patch 31.0.1
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education0.14.2
The Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1 is added to Education Edition.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Extended version of the key art, used in promotion of the pack's release on Legacy Console Edition.



			Tundra Tamer and Engineer on the key art for Inspiration Island, among other skins.



			GIF released in promotion of the skin pack.


Promotional images



			The desert characters fighting at a desert pyramid.



			Tundra Griefer cornered at a mineshaft.



			Several characters battling at a jungle pyramid.



			Desert Griefer being chased away from a forest.



			Forest and tundra settlers battling on a bridge.



			A conflict in an ice spikes biome.



			Forest Griefer in promotion for Glide.



			Ditto.



			Forest Griefer leading several llamas.



			Tundra Engineer working on a redstone contraption.










References

 "Biome Settlers Pack 1 now available for download"   (Archive)  by Owen Hill  – Mojang.com, November 20, 2015.

External links
"Minecraft Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1"     by Mojang/Microsoft Studios  – Xbox.com.
Navigation