This article documents an April Fools' Day joke. 
This feature was exclusively part of a joke version and is not currently planned for addition to regular Minecraft.

This page lists biomes that can appear only in April Fools snapshots of the game.

Contents

1 Java Edition 20w14∞ (2020)
2 Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (2023)
3 Java Edition 24w14potato (2024)
4 Java Edition 25w14craftmine (2025)
5 Navigation

Java Edition 20w14∞ (2020)

Biome name

Description

Screenshot

_generated:id

_generated:id is the resource location of the generated biome. Its namespace is _generated and its name is the biome's numeric ID.
This "biome" includes all the other non-custom dimensions biomes. All mobs, blocks, particles and structures in 20w13b (vanilla) can generate in this biome. A dimension can have multiple of these randomly generated biomes.

Between

Grid of End ships. Generates in the fleet dimension as well as some other random ones. There is no elytra as loot, but dragon heads still generate. Chests generate, but contain only a book titled "orders" written by a mess of changing letters. The contents have at least one word, usually an order (eg: build), a mess of constantly changing letters with varying lengths and another word(s) (eg: Lost Floppy).

Biome For Player With No Time For Nonsense

Generates as a normal snowy taiga, but all ores are mineral blocks or redstone components.

Shapes

Generates spheres, cubes, octahedra etc. of various colors of terracotta, glazed terracotta, concrete, concrete powder, wool, carpets, stained glass and stained glass panes.

Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (2023)

Biome name

Description

Screenshot

The Moon

Generates flat terrain with craters made of blocks of cheese, which can be "eaten" to change their shape. The only mob that spawns here is the moon cow. There is also the Lunar Base that can be expanded by stepping on the pressure plate, the only feature in the moon.

Java Edition 24w14potato (2024)

Biome name

Description

Screenshot

Arboretum

A forested biome, with every type of tree that exists in 24w12a, along with huge mushrooms and potato trees. Non-uniform foliage color distinguishes this biome from other forest-type biomes.

Corruption

A forested biome, covered in potato trees of various sizes, as well as potato buds, that grow upward like stalagmites. Phantoms here spawn naturally during the day and they don't burn.

Fields

A flat and open biome. Much of the surface is covered with poison farmland, and potatoes grow on top of it.

Hash

A dry biome, with almost no vegetation. Only biome where gravtater and vicious potatoes occur naturally. Hash wells and fossils generate here.

Wasteland

A desolate and dangerous biome. Water and rain applies the Poison effect to players and mobs. Toxifin slabs spawn in large numbers, causing more Poison and Wither. Ancient debris is common in this biome.

Java Edition 25w14craftmine (2025)

Biome name

Description

Screenshot

Hub

A biome consisting of a "+"-shaped room with a mine crafter in the center, with shimmering doors on opposite sides, which lead to additional rooms once unlocked. On the third side lies the entrance to the memory lane, a long corridor lined with mine revisitors. All the rooms are surrounded in sky blocks.

Navigation