This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Legacy Console Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2

Skins

24

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

BE: May 19, 2016
LCE: July 25, 2017
3DS: September 13, 2017

Website page

Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2 in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "24",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' May 19, 2016\n*'''LCE:''' July 25, 2017\n*'''3DS:''' September 13, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=b30eaf24-ede9-42fd-a1ca-a40f2dc73737 Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2 in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2 is a skin pack themed around the inhabitants of Mushroom Fields and Nether Wastes.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Legacy Console Edition
3.3 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Promotional images

5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Mooshroom Tamer

A dark skinned, muscular figure in a tattered jacket with exposed abs, a necklace, and tied up hair.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Mooshroom Archer

A green haired, brown skinned figure wearing a hood colored by a red mushroom, with a missing boot.

Mooshroom Brawler

A brown skinned figure with purple hair, a tattered tunic, exposed arms, and mushroom boxing gloves.

The basis for Slugger in Minecraft Mini-Series.

Mooshroom Brewer

An elder, dark skinned figure with a handlebar mustache, eyepatch, balding gray hair, and a tattered red and gray jacket.

Mooshroom Engineer

A light skinned, brown haired person wearing a helmet resembling a red mushroom, with goggles, mycelium colored shirt, and a redstone torch in a tool belt.

Mooshroom Explorer

A pale skinned, blonde figure wearing a monocle, explorer's hat, red mushroom colored jacket, mycelium colored pants, a large belt buckle, and no shoes.

Mooshroom Farmer

A brown skinned, pink haired figure wearing a tattered apron with red spotted sleeves.

Mooshroom Forager

A muscular, large eyed figure with long red hair, exposed abs, and a tattered white loincloth or pants.

Mooshroom Griefer

A warm skinned, bald figure with pronounced eyebrows and mustache, with a missing tooth, white shirt, and mushroom colored skirt.

Mooshroom Hunter

Moody figure with eyes obscured by a mushroom hat, long brown hair, arm bucklers, a robe resembling a villager's, and no shoes.

The basis for Mo in Minecraft Mini-Series.

Mooshroom Miner

A miner wearing a purple tinted shirt over black, tattered overalls. Covered in mushrooms, seemingly growing out of their flesh.

Shroom Glutton

A red, drooling figure with mushrooms growing out of them.

Bears a slight resemblance to Mobbo.

Nether Tamer

A dim skinned figure with red hair, a red poncho, and a red scarf covering their mouth.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Nether Archer

A pale skinned person with an outfit abstractly modeled after a ghast, with a blaze rod on their back.

Nether Banished

A being made out of flames and what appears to be nether bricks, screaming.

Nether Brawler

A dirty figure wearing a red muscle shirt, with square shoulders, bandages wrapped around their wrists, and a wrestling mask resembling a skeleton skull.

Nether Brewer

A pink skinned, elderly figure with a long, flowing beard and elegant robes, colored red, netherrack red, and lava red.

Bears a resemblance to Enchantro.

Nether Engineer

A pale blonde covered in soot, wearing a white helmet with enderman-like goggles, and a red jumpsuit.

Nether Explorer

A dark skinned figure in a hazmat-like suit, seemingly red from extreme heat, with a glass visor smeared with blaze powder.

Nether Extinguisher

A sorcerer-like figure, with a scarred left eye, red hair, pale skin, a dark red robe with a back pattern of a blaze floating above the lava ocean.

Bears a resemblance to the ember robes.

Nether Wart Farmer

A pink colored, agonized blonde wearing a headscarf with a right arm covered in overgrowing nether warts.

Nether Griefer

A stuffed figure with red hair, wearing nether brick colored armor, a lava bucket on their back, and blaze-colored boots.

Nether Hunter

An intimidating, cold figure wearing armor designed like wither skeleton bones and a spiked haircut.

Nether Miner

A pale figure with a ghast-like face, wearing dark red mining equiptment, including a rope and torch.

Quotes
“Dress as a denizen of the Nether or a Mushroom Island!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.14.3
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU56CU471.551.551.55Patch 261.0.6
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2.
Gallery
Official artwork



			GIF released in promotion for this skin pack.


Promotional images



			The mushroom skins in a colonized dark forest.



			A pier in a mushroom field.



			 Emerging from a mine on a horse.



			Both halves of the skin pack fighting.



			A nether fortress.



			Several characters returning from a Nether portal.


References

 "Biome Settlers Pack 2 now available for download"   (Archive)  by Marsh Davies  – Mojang.com, May 19, 2016.

External links
Biome Settlers Skin Pack 2 on Xbox.com
Navigation