For the effect in Minecraft Dungeons, see MCD:Blinded.

 Not to be confused with Darkness.

Blindness

Sources

See § Causes

Particle

 #1F1F23 (dark gray)

Type

Negative

Identifier

blindness

{
    "title": "Blindness",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "See (link to #Causes article, displayed as <span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\">§ Causes</span>)",
            "label": "Sources"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:18px;width:18px\">(link to File:EffectSprite particle-blindness.png article, displayed as 18x18px|link=|alt=EffectSprite particle-blindness.png: Sprite image for particle-blindness in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|)</span> #1F1F23 (dark gray)",
            "label": "Particle"
        },
        {
            "field": "Negative",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "<code>blindness</code>",
            "label": "(link to Identifier article, displayed as Identifier)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Blindness.png"
    ]
}

Blindness is a status effect that impairs a player's vision and prevents sprinting and critical hits. It has no potion, but it can be obtained by consuming suspicious stew made with an azure bluet or open eyeblossom.

Contents

1 Effect
2 Causes
3 Immune mobs
4 Advancements
5 Data values

5.1 ID

6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition

7 Issues
8 Navigation

Effect
See also: Fog § Blindness and darkness

The view from a player who is afflicted by Blindness
Blindness impairs a player's vision by surrounding them with a thick black fog, with only the immediate area around them being visible. With Vibrant Visuals, all directional light sources are disabled, making the scene appear as in a cave. All fog types apart from default air fog still use their colors.
The effect also prevents the player from sprinting or inflicting critical hits. However, in Bedrock Edition, it does not stop an ongoing sprint.
The effect can be removed by drinking milk. In  Minecraft Education and Bedrock Edition when education options are enabled, drinking eye drops also removes blindness.
Blindness has no effect on mobs. This can be observed in Survival by having a fox eat suspicious stew made with an azure bluet or open eyeblossom.
Wardens are naturally blind and instead rely on detection via vibrations, smell and touch. This form of blindness is completely independent from the Blindness effect.

Causes

Cause

Potency

Length

Notes

Illusioner ‌[Java Edition  only]

I

0:20

As an attack if the regional difficulty is greater than 2.00.

Suspicious Stew

I

0:11‌[JE  only]0:07‌[BE  only]

Crafted with an azure bluet or open eyeblossom.

Suspicious Stew

I

0:05-0:07

Found in shipwreck supply chests.Traded from expert farmer villagers‌[JE  only].

Immune mobs
Withers and ender dragons are immune to Blindness.
All mobs are unaffected by Blindness.
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)How Did We Get Here?Have every effect applied at the same time
Have all of these 34 status effects applied to the player at the same time:

Absorption
Bad Omen
Blindness
Breath of the Nautilus
Conduit Power
Darkness
Dolphin's Grace
Fire Resistance
Glowing
Haste
Hero of the Village
Hunger
Infested
Invisibility
Jump Boost
Levitation
Mining Fatigue
Nausea
Night Vision
Oozing
Poison
Raid Omen
Regeneration
Resistance
Slow Falling
Slowness
Speed
Strength
Trial Omen
Water Breathing
Weakness
Weaving
Wind Charged
Wither

The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.

See also: Tutorial:Advancement guide/How Did We Get Here?

This is a hidden advancement, meaning that it can be viewed by the player only after completing it, regardless of if its child advancement(s), if any, have been completed.
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifier
Translation key Blindnessblindness
effect.minecraft.blindness
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID
Translation key Blindnessblindness15
potion.blindness
History



This section is missing information about: Legacy Console Edition 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.8Pre-release
Blindness is added along with 18 other status effects but is currently unobtainable in regular gameplay and non-functional.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
 The effect sprite for Blindness has been added to inventory.png.

Blindness now functions.1.1217w16a
Added illusioners, which can affect players with Blindness.17w17a
Illusioners now apply the Blindness effect only if the local difficulty is 3 or above.17w17b
Illusioners now already apply the Blindness effect if the local difficulty is 2 or above.1.1418w43a
Blindness can now be obtained by eating suspicious stew.

 The texture of the blindness effect icon has been changed.

The effect is now required for the "How Did We Get Here?" advancement.1.20.223w32a
The game no longer uses numeric values when storing mob effects to world. Prior to the removal of numeric IDs, this effect's numeral ID was 15.1.21.424w44a
Blindness can also now be obtained by eating suspicious stew made with an open eyeblossom, lasting 7 seconds.24w45a
Blindness obtained from suspicious stew made with an azure bluet now lasts 11 seconds.24w46a
Blindness obtained from suspicious stew made with an open eyeblossom now lasts 11 seconds.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.11.0build 1
 Added Blindness.Bedrock Edition1.2.0?
When Blindness is combined with Night Vision, the screen now appears completely black.[when?]1.4.0beta 1.2.20.1
Eye drops now remove the blindness effect when consumed.1.11.0beta 1.11.0.5
 The texture of the blindness effect icon has been changed.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.9
Blindness can now be obtained by eating suspicious stew made with an azure bluet.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.25
Blindness can also now be obtained by eating suspicious stew made with an open eyeblossom, lasting 8 seconds.Preview 1.21.50.28
Blindness obtained from suspicious stew made with an open eyeblossom now lasts 7 seconds.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Blindness is added along with 18 other status effects but is currently unobtainable in regular gameplay.[is this the correct version?]TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Added illusioners, which can affect players with Blindness.[verify]   1.91
 The texture of the blindness effect icon has been changed.
Issues
Issues relating to "Blindness" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Navigation