A block update is an in-game mechanism that occurs when a block is modified in some way.
Limited to the computing power of a computer, the game can not process all blocks at all times, which is why the game needs such mechanism. When a block changes (due to a player, an entity, or a chunk tick, etc.), it notifies nearby blocks that they should check if they need to respond to the change.

Contents

1 Java Edition

1.1 Priorities
1.2 Post placement update

1.2.1 Sending
1.2.2 Receiving

1.3 Neighbor changed update

1.3.1 Sending
1.3.2 Receiving

1.4 Comparator update
1.5 Special blocks
1.6 Block updates and DFS
1.7 Self update

2 Bedrock Edition
3 History

3.1 Java Edition

4 Navigation

Java Edition
In Java Edition, there are two main types of block updates: post placement (PP) and neighbor changed (NC).

Priorities
This article uses the priorities listed in the table below to categorize the various block updates. However, keep in mind that these values are not actually present in the game's code.

Priority
Description
Method in code

-3
Updates before the change.
N/A

-2
Some updates after the change.
Blockstate.onRemove()​[more information needed]

-1
Some updates after the change.
BlockBehaviour.onPlace(...)

0
General NC updates.
Level.sendBlockUpdated(...)

1
General comparator updates.
BlockBehaviour.updateNeighbourForOutputSignal(...)

2
General PP updates.
BlockBehaviour.updateNeighbourShapes(...)

3
Later updates.
N/A

Most players only use -3 to 3 priority values to describe scheduled ticks, so it is recommended not to use these values for the update sequence in order to avoid ambiguity with scheduled tick priorities.

Post placement update
A post placement (PP) update (aka update post placement, update neighbor shapes, update shape) is the most common type of block updates, mainly used for connected blocks changing their shapes (e.g. stairs, fences) and attached blocks dropping into items (e.g. torches, cactus, wheat).

Sending

Range of General PP updates (Green wool)
General PP updates
When a block is placed, destroyed, replaced, or its blockstate is changed, the game sends PP update to its immediate neighbors, in this order: west, east, north, south, down, up.
Exceptions
Some blocks have unique behaviors:
Lighting a nether portal does not send PP update.
A nether portal generating does not send PP update.
Changing block state with debug stick does not send PP update.
Shulker boxes sends general PP updates when beginning to open/close or finished opening/closing.
When a redstone wire is placed, destroyed, replaced, or its blockstate is changed, for any block that the redstone wire points horizontally to, if it is not a redstone wire, then the game also sends PP updates to the block above it and the block below it. However, it does not send PP update to an observer.
Pistons and beds have more complex updates.
Receiving
When a block receives a PP update, the direction of the PP update may be considered. For example, a wheat block accepts only PP updates from beneath.
Only the following blocks can receive PP updates:

Block
What to do when receiving a PP update

Support-requiring blocks (e.g. torches, snow, carpets, doors, fire, etc.)
Checks if it should break and drop as an item.

Connective blocks (e.g. fences, stairs, chests, redstone wires, nether portals, etc.)
Checks if it should change its shape.

Redstone repeater
Checks for being locked or unlocked.

Note block
Tries to update its instrument type.

Leaves
Calculates the distance to logs.

Concrete powder
Solidifies if contacted with water.

Water and waterlogged blocks
Requests a scheduled tick for flowing.

Observer
Requests a scheduled tick for pulsing.

Gravity-affected blocks
Requests a scheduled tick for checking for falling.

Dirt path

Requests a scheduled tick for checking whether it is covered by a solid block.

Farmland

Cactus
Requests a scheduled tick for checking if it should drop.

Coral
Requests a scheduled tick for checking whether it is outside of water.

Magma block

Tries to request a scheduled tick to generate bubble columns.

Soul sand

Neighbor changed update
Neighbor changed (NC) updates (aka neighbor changed, update neighbors, redstone update) are the most widely known type of block updates (for historical reasons), and are mainly used for redstone components.

Sending

Range of General NC updates (Green wool)
General NC updates
Most blocks send NC updates to their immediate neighbors when they are placed, destroyed, or replaced, in this order: west, east, down, up, north, south.
Exceptions
Some changes do not produce General NC updates:
Bamboo
Thickens when the upper bamboo thickens.
Bamboo shoot
Grows into a bamboo.
Water and Bubble column
Convert to each other.
Carved pumpkin, Jack o'lantern, Snow block and Block of Iron
Turn into a golem.
Plants
Turn into a double-block plant.
Cauldron
Its water level changes.
Chorus flower and Chorus plant
Grow, ripen or change their shape.
Cocoa
Grows.
Redstone repeater
Becomes lit or unlit.
Redstone comparator
Its signal or its mode is changed.
Coral, Coral fans, and Coral blocks
Die.
Wheat, Potatoes, Carrots, and Beetroots
Grow.
Doors, Trapdoors, and Fence gates
Opes, close, activate, or deactivate.
Dragon egg
Transports to destination.
Farmland
Gets hydrated or dry.
Frosted ice
Melts gradually (but has not turned into water).
Jukebox
Inserts or ejects records.
Nether wart
Grows.
Observer
Becomes lit or unlit.
Redstone lamp
Becomes lit or unlit.
Sea pickle
Increases its number using bone meal.
Sponge
Absorbs water.
Melon stem and Pumpkin stem
Grow.
Melon or pumpkin is removed from them.
Sweet berry bush
Grows.
Its fruits are collected.
Turtle egg
Its number decreases.
Vines
Grows, changes its shape, grows out a new vine block.
Wither skeleton skull, Soul soil, and Soul sand
Turn into a wither.
Grass block
Gets eaten by a sheep.
Carrots
Get eaten by a rabbit.
Anvil
Gets damaged.
End portal frame
The Eye of Ender is placed.
End portal
Generates.
Brewing stand
Bottles or potions are added into it.
Structure block and Command block
Change their mode.
Cactus and Sugar cane
Grow.
Daylight detector
Changes its mode.
Dispenser, Dropper, and Hopper
Becomes activated or deactivated.
Fire
Its age or shape changes.
Saplings
Increase their stage.
Tripwire
Its "disarmed" value changes.
Beds
Become occupied or unoccupied.
Nether portal and Obsidian
Generates as a nether portal.
Campfire
Add or remove hay bale below it.
Fences, Stairs, Glass panes, Iron bars, Mushroom blocks, and Walls
Its shape changes.
Grass block, Podzol, and Mycelium
Be covered or uncovered by snow.
Kelp, Weeping vines, and Twisting vines
Grow.
Add or remove kelp/vines above/below it.
Pressure plates
Its signal changes.
All blocks
Change their blockstate using debug stick.
Placed by a command.
Pistons and Beds
Have more complex behavior.
Other NC updates
Some blocks (mainly redstone components) send more NC updates other than general NC updates when changing.

Block
Change
Priority
Range and order
Schematic diagram

Lever / Button / Pressure plate / Tripwire hook

Destroy an activated lever/button/pressure plate/tripwire hook.

-2

Their immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south). Then the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block they're attached to.

Active or deactive them.Change pressure plate's signal.Tripwire hook connects to a tripwire.

3

Repeater and Comparator

Place or its blockstate changes.

-1

The block they're facing. Then the immediate neighbors (without the repeater/comparator itself. In order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block they're facing.

Remove.

-2

Comparator's signal changes.

3

Chest

Begin to be open/closed

N/A (the block is not changed)

Its immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south).

Trapped chest

Begin to be open/closed

N/A (the block is not changed)

Its immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south). Then the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block below it.

Observer

Lit or unlit.

3

The block it's facing. Then the immediate neighbors (without the observer itself. In order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block it's facing.

Destroy or replace an activated observer.

-2

Place an activated observer.

-1

Set itself to unactivated without any update. Then update the block it's facing. Then the immediate neighbors (excluding the observer itself. In order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block it's facing.

Redstone torch

Place or its blockstate changes.

-1

The immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of the torch.

Destroy, replace, or its blockstate changes.

-2

Redstone wire

Destroy or replace.

-2

The immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of the wire.

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of adjacent redstone wires (in order of north, east, south, west).

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of redstone wires above the solid blocks adjacent to the redstone wire (in order of north, east, south, west).

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of redstone wires below the non-solid blocks adjacent to the redstone wire (in order of north, east, south, west).

R

When removing "R"

R

When removing "R"

Place.

-1

Updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block above the wire.

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the block below the wire.

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of adjacent redstone wires (in order of north, east, south, west).

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of redstone wires above the solid blocks adjacent to the redstone wire (in order of north, east, south, west).

Then updates the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) and the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the immediate neighbors (in order of down, up, north, south, west, east) of redstone wires below the non-solid blocks adjacent to the redstone wire (in order of north, east, south, west).

R

When removing "R"

R

When removing "R"

Its signal changes

3

Update the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the datum points. Datum points include the wire and the immediate neighbors of the wire, in random order.

Changes between dot and cross

3

Update the immediate neighbors (without the wire itself, and in order of west, east, down, up, north, south) of the solid block next to the wire (in order of north, east, south, west).

Rails

​[more information needed]

Any block

Placed with a command.

3

Update the immediate neighbors (in order of west, east, down, up, north, south).

Receiving
When an NC update is received, the block that caused that update may taken into consideration. For example, a rail accepts only NC updates from power components.
Only the following blocks can react to NC updates:

Block
What to do when receiving an NC update

Frosted ice
Tries to melt.

Redstone dust

Tries to change its state.

Redstone repeater

Redstone comparator

Redstone torch

Rail

Detector rail

Activator rail

Powered rail

Command blocks

Dropper

Dispenser

Note block

Redstone lamp

TNT

Piston

Trapdoors

Fence gates

Doors

Water

Tries to change itself to be in the correct state.

Lava

Sponge
Tries to absorb water.

Comparator update



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Comparator updates
The comparator update (i.e. Block entity updates, Update neighbor for output signal) is a subtype of the neighbor update that is only sent to comparators. Redstone comparators can read certain blocks and produce an output signal, and in turn, these blocks can send comparator updates when changing, to notify the comparators. Comparators can also read some entities (item frames and glow item frames), as such, these entities can send comparator updates too, even though they are not blocks.
When a block that can be detected by comparators changes, it sends updates to surrounding comparators (including comparators separated by a solid block), in this order: north, east, south, west.
After receiving a comparator update, comparators attempt to calculate and change their output signal.

Special blocks



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Pistons: during the start of the extension/retraction process, every time a moving piston block gets placed and every time one of the normal blocks is replaced/removed, PP updates are sent to these blocks' neighbors. Once all moving piston blocks have been placed, the game will send NC updates to the replaced/removed normal blocks' neighbors.
Sticky pistons, however, do not send NC updates around their head when they start to pull blocks: only the NC updates caused by the moving piston block turning back into a normal block are sent, once the retraction process is over. If a sticky piston fails to retract a slime block or a honey block due to the pull limit, no updates will be sent around the head whatsoever.

Block updates and DFS
Block updates follow the principle of depth-first search (DFS).
For example, when Block A changes, it maybe sends block updates to B and C one by one. Receiving the update, B maybe changes and sends updates to D and E. Receiving update from B, D changes and sends updates to some block. Then E receives the update from B. Then C receives the update from A.

Self update
When a block is placed, it checks and adapts itself to its surroundings by Blockstate.onPlace() or similar methods. Strictly speaking, this isn't a block update; however when a block is placed or changed, if it changes again when self-updated, then the former change does not produce any general update (this is a bug).
Here is a list of self updates that can cause this bug.

Hopper
When being placed, if it should be powered, becomes powered.
Wet sponge
If in the nether, it turns into an dry sponge.
Sponge
When being placed, it absorbs water and turns into an wet sponge.
Target and Observer
When a powered target or observer is placed, it turns into an unpowered state.
Tripwire
When being placed, it updates the signal and connection.
Fire
When being placed, if it should be extinguished, removes itself.
TNT
When being placed, if it should explode, removes itself.
Rail, Detector rail, Activator rail, Powered rail
When being placed, it updates its shape.
Detector rail
When being placed, it checks whether it is pressed and updates its state.
Carved pumpkin
When being placed, if it should turn into a golem, removes itself.
Bedrock Edition



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

History
Java Edition
Unknown?
Neighbor Changed updates have been added to the game.Java Edition1.513w05a
Comparator updates have been added to the game.1.1116w44a
Post Placement updates have been added to the game. At this point in time only observers react to them.1.1318w47a
The update system has been overhauled: many blocks that used to react to NC updates now react to PP updates instead, also some blocks can now react to both and will behave differently depending on which type of update they receive.

Navigation



 "Normal block" is intended as not a "moving piston" block.