Not to be confused with Entity.

A block entity (also known as a tile entity) is an additional object associated with certain blocks.

Contents

1 Usage
2 List of block entities
3 Render limits
4 History

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition
4.3 Legacy Console Edition
4.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

5 See also
6 Navigation

Usage
Block entities can store additional information about their block, beyond the finite set of block states that a block may have. For example, all blocks that can store items use a block entity for this purpose. Block entities can also tick, running code regularly while loaded, even when not interacted with directly.
Complex rendering not available to normal block models is also achieved with block entities.
Blocks with block entities can be moved by pistons in Bedrock Edition, but not in Java Edition.

List of block entities



It has been suggested that  this section be split into its own page. [discuss]
If this split affects many pages, or may potentially be controversial, do not split until a consensus has been reached. Reason: we should have two tables: one for block entities in both major editions, and one for edu-only block entities


These are the current blocks that hold block entities.

Block entity

Usage

Beehive
Bee Nest

Stores bees and their entity data.
Ticks regularly to determine when the bees should exit.

Signs
Hanging Signs
Chalkboard‌[BE & edu  only]
Poster‌[BE & edu  only]
Slate‌[BE & edu  only]

Stores and renders written text.
Renders the sign itself.‌[BE  only]

Sculk Sensor
Calibrated Sculk Sensor

Stores the redstone signal strength.
Listens for nearby vibrations.

Sculk Catalyst

Stores xp levels.
Listens for nearby deaths, and spreads charges.

Sculk Shrieker

Stores the number of activations.
Listens for nearby vibrations.

Banners

Stores the base color‌[BE  only], the patterns, and a custom name.
Renders the banner with its patterns.

Chest
Trapped Chest
Shulker Box
Dyed Shulker Box
Dispenser
Dropper
Barrel
Chiseled Bookshelf
Decorated Pot

Stores its contents and a custom name for the interface.
For chests, trapped chests, shulker boxes and decorated pots, renders the block.

Furnace
Smoker
Blast Furnace
Brewing Stand
Campfire
Soul Campfire

Stores its contents, the cooking and fuel times, and a custom name for the interface.
Ticks regularly to advance the cooking time.
For campfires, renders the contained items.

Hopper

Stores its contents, the transfer cooldown, and a custom name for the interface.
Ticks regularly to advance the cooldown and search for items to pull.

Lectern

Stores the page the book is currently on.
Renders the book.

Crafter

Stores its contents, which slots are disabled and the crafting cooldown.
Ticks regularly to advance the cooldown.

Beacon

Stores the pyramid level, active effects, and contents.
Ticks regularly to check for a valid pyramid, and apply effects to nearby players.
Renders the beacon beam.

Creaking Heart

Stores the UUID of the transient creaking associated with this creaking heart.

Monster Spawner
Trial Spawner

Stores:
- the entity to be spawned
- the delay until the next entity is spawned, and the min and max values for the next spawn delay
- how many entities to spawn per spawn attempt
- additional data about the entity to be spawned (such as equipment, and status effects)
- the loot reward for the trial spawner
Ticks regularly to advance its cooldown, check for spawn conditions, and spawn mobs.
Renders the spinning entity inside.

Vault

Stores its loot configuration and tracked players.
Renders the spinning items inside.

Note Block‌[BE  only]

Stores the note to be played.

Item Frame‌[BE  only]
Glow Item Frame‌[BE  only]

Stores the contained item.
Renders the item.

Piston‌[BE  only]
Sticky Piston‌[BE  only]

Stores the offset of block, and blocks that it should move or break. Also stores the moving process.

Moving Piston

Stores the offset of block‌[JE  only], direction of movement‌[JE  only], and ID of the moving block.
Renders the block.

Jukebox

Stores the contained music discs.
Ticks regularly to end the song when enough time has elapsed.

Enchanting Table

Stores a custom name for the interface.
Renders the book.

End Portal
End Gateway

For end gateways, stores the destination location.
Renders the block.

Player Head
Zombie Head
Skeleton Skull
Wither Skeleton Skull
Creeper Head
Dragon Head
Piglin Head

For player heads, stores the player's skin information.
Renders the block.

   Command Block

Stores the command text, its output strength, and the output text.

    Structure Block

Stores information about the structure.

Jigsaw Block

Stores the structure pool and the block this jigsaw block becomes.

Nether Reactor Core‌[BE  only]

Stores the reaction phase and the time remaining in the reaction.
Ticks regularly to update the time remaining in the reaction.

Daylight Detector

Ticks regularly to update its output signal strength.

Flower Pot‌[BE  only]

Stores the ID and the data value of the block displayed inside of it.

Redstone Comparator

Stores its output strength.

Bed‌[BE  only]

Stores its color.
Renders the block.

Cauldron‌[BE  only]

Stores details about liquid content. Cauldrons containing dyed water store water color. Cauldrons containing potions store the potion's ID and a tag of whether it is a splash potion or not.

Conduit

Ticks regularly to check its activation area for valid activation blocks and apply effects to nearby players.
Renders the block.

Bell

Ticks regularly to apply the glowing effect to nearby raiders when used.‌[JE  only]
Renders the bell.

Lodestone‌[BE  only]

To link with a compass.

Suspicious Sand
Suspicious Gravel

Stores the loot table and contents.
Renders the item while brushing.

Compound Creator‌[BE & edu  only]Element Constructor‌[BE & edu  only]Lab Table‌[BE & edu  only]Material Reducer‌[BE & edu  only]

Stores the items in the lab table and the process of lab experiment.

Ender Chest

Renders the block.

Shelf

Stores and renders items.
Stores whether items should be centered or aligned to the bottom.

Copper Golem Statue

Renders the block.
Stores the golem's custom name.

Potent Sulfur

Stores the base amount of time remaining in the dormant phase when able to create geysers[verify]
The number of seconds remaining until the block switches between dormant and erupting phases.[verify]
The base amount of time the block erupts when able to create geysers, in seconds.[verify]
Ticks regularly to update its geyser progress.[verify]

Render limits



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

The rendering of block entities that use the block entity renderer stops beyond a hard-coded block limit which is modeled after the radius of a sphere. This limit is not affected by the Render Distance nor the Entity Distance scale in the Video Settings.
Some effects related to block entities stop rendering beyond a different number of blocks:

The beacon and end gateway beams stop rendering beyond 256 blocks in Java Edition or 64 blocks in Bedrock Edition or when the end gateway is out of frame.
The outlines created by a structure block stop rendering beyond 96 blocks.
History



This section is missing information about: populate this with every historical addition and removal 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition
Java Edition Indev0.3120100124-2119
Added chests along with a chest block entity.20100219
Added furnaces, along with a furnace block entity.Java Edition Infdev20100607
Re-added signs as blocks along with a sign block entity.20100625-1917
Added monster spawners, which also use the sign block entity.20100627
Monster spawners now use their own block entity.Java Edition Alphav1.0.1
Added wall signs, which also use the sign block entity.Java Edition Beta1.2
Added dispensers, along with a dispenser block entity.

Added note blocks, along with a note block block entity.1.7
Added moving pistons, along with a moving piston block entity.1.8Pre-release
The chest block entity is now used to render its newly changed model.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
Added brewing stands, along with a brewing stand block entity.

Added enchanting tables, along with a enchanting table block entity.

Added the End portal block, along with a End portal block entity.1.3.112w21a
Added ender chests along with a ender chest block entity.1.4.212w32a
Added command blocks along with a command block block entity.

Added beacons along with a beacon block entity.12w36a
Added heads, along with a skull block entity.1.513w01a
Added daylight detectors, along with a daylight detector block entity.

Added hoppers, along with a hopper block entity.

Added redstone comparators, along with a redstone comparator block entity.13w03a
Added droppers, along with a dropper block entity.1.7.213w36a
Flower pots now use a block entity.1.814w30a
Added banners along with a banner block entity.1.915w31a
Added the End gateway block, along with a end gateway block entity.

Added structure blocks, along with a structure block block entity.15w34a
Added chain and repeating command blocks, which both use the command block block entity.1.1116w32a
The namespaced ID of block entities have been lowercased and renamed.16w39a
Added shulker boxes, along with a shulker box block entity.1.1217w15a
Beds now use a block entity.1.1317w47a
Note blocks no longer have an associated block entity and instead use the block state system.

Flower pots no longer have an associated block entity and instead use individual blocks instead.

Bed colors are no longer determined using its block entity.

Banner base colors are no longer determined using the banner block entity.

Head variants (creeper, skeleton, etc.) are no longer determined using the skull block entity.

Trapped chests now use a unique block entity.18w15a
Added conduits, along with a conduit block entity.1.1418w44a
Added barrels, along with a barrel block entity.

Added bells, along with a bell block entity.

Added lecterns, along with a lectern block entity.

Added smokers and blast furnaces, which both use the furnace block entity.18w46a
Added jigsaw blocks, along with a jigsaw block block entity.19w02a
Added campfires, along with a campfire block entity.18w50a
Smokers and blast furnaces now use their own unique block entities.1.1519w34a
Added beehives and bee nests, along with a beehive block entity.1.1620w15a
Added soul campfires, which use the campfire block entity.1.1720w49a
Added sculk sensors along with a sculk sensor block entity.1.19Deep Dark Experimental Snapshot 1
Added sculk catalysts, along with a sculk catalyst block entity.

Added sculk shriekers, along with a sculk shrieker block entities.22w11a
Implemented the previously mentioned features into normal snapshot.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w42a
Added chiseled bookshelves along with a chiseled bookshelf block entity.

Added hanging signs, along with a hanging sign block entity.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Added decorated pots along with a decorated pot block entity.

Added suspicious sand, along with a suspicious sand block entity.1.2023w12a
Added calibrated sculk sensors, along with a calibrated sculk sensor block entity.

Added suspicious gravel, which also uses suspicious sand block entity, which has been renamed to "brushable block entity" to better fit both block usages.1.20.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2123w45a
Added trial spawners, along with a trial spawner block entity.23w42a
Added crafters, along with a crafter block entity.1.20.5ExperimentUpdate 1.2124w05a
Added vaults, along with a vault block entity.1.21.2ExperimentWinter Drop24w40a
Added creaking hearts, along with a creaking heart block entity.1.21.525w03a
Added test blocks, along with a test block block entity.

Added test instance blocks, along with a test instance block block entity.1.21.925w31a
Added copper golem statues along with a copper golem statue block entity.

Added shelves, along with a shelf block entity.25w34a
The shelf block entity now determines if items align with the bottom or the middle of a shelf.26.2snap3
The bed block entity has been removed.snap5
Potent sulfur now uses a block entity.snap7
Signs and hanging signs are now rendered with block models (previously the block entity renderer was used instead).Upcoming Java Edition26.3snap4
minecraft:sign and minecraft:hanging_sign: By default, commands and other click events contained in sign text are no longer executed when the block is clicked. Changed the rules for opening the sign edit screen after a block is placed. Signs will now accept and return the minecraft:sign_text_front, minecraft:sign_text_back and minecraft:waxed components.
 minecraft:brewing_stand: Some fields are now stored as integers rather than shorts.
minecraft:furnace, minecraft:smoker and minecraft:blast_furnace: The following fields are now stored as integers rather than shorts.
Bedrock Edition



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Legacy Console Edition



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

New Nintendo 3DS Edition



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

See also
Block entity format – describes the save format for block entities
Entities, which are all the dynamic, moving objects throughout the Minecraft world, plus several non-moving objects that resemble blocks.
Block states, which are, like block entities, extra pieces of data that further define a block.
Navigation



 "Sorry I broke the signs, here's the fix" (archived) – The Word of Notch, Tumblr, June 27, 2010.