Not to be confused with Blocks (Blast).



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Three of the various blockers in the game
Blockers are various items, blocks and mobs in Minecraft Blast that function to obstruct levels and create obstacles.

Contents

1 List of blockers

1.1 Unused

2 History
3 Gallery

3.1 Screenshots
3.2 Sprites
3.3 Renders

4 Navigation

List of blockers
The blockers are organized in the order they appear for the first time.

Name

Image

Render

First Appearance

Information

Dirt Blocker

Level 1

Dirt blockers can be destroyed by tapping on matching blocks next to it.

Apple Blocker

Level 3

Apple blockers can be destroyed by tapping on matching blocks next to it, and are affected by gravity.

Canopy Blocker

Level 6

Canopy blockers (also known as leaves blockers) can be cleared by tapping on matching blocks right next to it. Once cleared, it will reveal the blocks/blockers hiding under them. Blocks can pass through canopy blockers.

Sheep Blocker

Level 10

Sheep blockers are used to collect wool by tapping on matching blocks right next to it, shearing the wool. Once the wool is sheared off the sheep blocker, it will eat the grass below it and regrow its wool. Sheep blockers cannot be destroyed and will remain until the amount of wool needed has been achieved, removing the blocker.

Zombie Blocker

Level 15

Zombie blockers move and idle around their zombie lairs which are inaccessible to blocks. Zombie blockers can be removed by tapping on matching blocks right next to it. If all zombies within the lair are removed, the lair will disappear and allow blocks to fill the space left behind. Zombies can come with either leather or gold helmets, increasing the number of matches required to remove them to 2 or 3 respectively.

Bookshelf Blocker

Level 21

Bookshelf blockers are 2×2 blockers that are used to collect books by making matches next to it. Once the player has tapped on matching blocks that is right next to the bookshelf blocker, it will remove a book, starting from the top left side and ending on the bottom right side. Once all 8 books from within the bookshelf blocker have been collected, it will be removed.

Glass Blocker

Level 31

Glass blockers can be cleared by breaking the blocks underneath them.

Chicken Blocker

Level 41

Chicken blockers require the player to get them to the very bottom of the level, once it has reached the bottom it will be collected.

Diorite Blocker

Level 51

Diorite blockers can be broken by making two matches right next to it, making one match next to it will crack the blocker. After two matches have been done, it will be removed.

Creeper Blocker

Level 61

Creeper blockers will idle and move around its lair. Creeper blockers can be exploded by making two consecutive matches next to it. Once one match has been done next to it, it will start to hiss and if another match is successfully done within the hiss, it will explode, destroying nearby blocks, but if the player fails to make a match next to the creeper blocker while it is hissing, it will go back to normal.

Piston Blocker

Level 71

Piston blockers can cover an entire row or column, and matches must be made next to it until it fully retracts. Once fully retracted, making another match next to it will remove it.

Cobweb Blocker

Level 81

Cobweb blockers will cover blocks below them, making them not count towards matches, even if they're part of a valid match. They can come in various sizes, covering different areas of the board. They can be removed by making matches next to them, making the previously covered blocks now valid towards matches.

Flowerbed Blocker

Level 91

Flowerbed blockers are 2×2 blockers containing 4 flowers of different colours. Flowers can be removed by making a match next to the blocker with the corresponding color (yellow flowers are removed by yellow blocks, blue flowers are removed by blue blocks, etc.) or by boosters. Once all 4 flowers have been removed from a blocker, the blocker is removed.

Melon Blocker

Level 101

Melon blockers can be broken by making two matches right next to it, and are affected by gravity. Making one match next to it will transfrom it into a watermelon slice, and after two matches it will be removed.

Spider Blocker

Level 121

Spider blockers will idle and can move around different lairs. If a spider is not defeated after 1 move, they will move in their lair or jump to a different one. After 2 moves, they prepare to launch a cobweb. After 3 moves, they launch the cobweb to a random block, creating a cobweb blocker. This cycle repeats until they're defeated by making a match next to them.

Carpet Blocker

File:MCB Carpet Blocker.png

Level 141

Carpet blockers block out pre-determined areas of the board, and can be removed by eliminating the required number of blocks of the corresponding color. Once removed, it'll reveal the blocks/blockers previously hidden underneath them. Carpet blockers do not count towards goals, but are still required to be removed in order to make a level beatable.

Obsidian Blocker

Level 161

Obsidian blockers can only be destroyed with boosters (except end crystals since they only destroy blocks), making normal matches ineffective against them.

Tree Blocker

Level 181

Tree blockers spawn apple blockers ​[more information needed] after making five matches next to them.

Flowerpot Blocker

Level 201

Flowerpot blockers are similar to flowerbed blockers in that they require matches of the corresponding color or boosters to be removed, but they occupy a single tile instead. They can come in 2 variants: single flower and 3 flowers, which require 1 or 2 matches respectively.

Unused

Image

Name

Notes

Skeleton

Textures of the skeleton blocker exists within the game files, but no model of the skeleton has been found, the villager does use the skeleton emoji in the game but no actual skeleton appears.

History
Minecraft Blast0.11
Added blockers.
Gallery
Screenshots



			Various blockers such as canopies and zombies found within a level



			Apple blockers filling most of the level in level 36


Sprites



			Apple blocker



			Bee blocker



			Book blocker



			Canopy blocker



			Chicken blocker



			Cobblestone blocker



			Cobweb blocker



			Crafting Table blocker



			Creeper blocker



			Deepslate blocker



			Diorite blocker



			Dirt blocker



			Flowerbed blocker



			Flowerpot blocker



			Glass blocker



			Iron  ore blocker



			Melon blocker



			Obsidian blocker



			Piston blocker



			Sheep blocker



			Sheep collect blocker



			Skeleton blocker



			Spider blocker



			Tree blocker



			Zombie blocker


Renders



			Apple Blocker



			Canopy Blocker



			Diorite Blocker



			Dirt Blocker



			Chicken Blocker



			Creeper Blocker



			Sheep Blocker



			Sheeared Sheep Blocker



			Spider Blocker



			Zombie Blocker



			Zombie With Helmet Blocker


Navigation