The four boosters that can be created in a level
Boosters are stackable power-ups in Minecraft Blast that can be obtained through gameplay or through the crafting masters rewards system. Some boosters can be activated before a level to start a level with the boosters' corresponding special items while others can be used in-level.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Pre-level
1.2 Other

1.2.1 On Fire

2 List of boosters

2.1 Unused

3 Combining
4 History
5 Gallery

5.1 Renders
5.2 Screenshots
5.3 Unused combo icons

6 Navigation

Obtaining
Pre-level
Pre-level boosters can first be unlocked within level 5, where boosters are given for free within playing the level, the boosters will then be placed randomly in the level. Completing level 5 grants players with 3 boosters for each of the three pre-level boosters. In-level boosters are unlocked within level 8 where the first in-level booster which is a pickaxe will be given for free which lets the player try out the booster.

Other
Boosters can be obtained freely with the use of the crafting masters or the "On Fire" event/mechanic in which players are tasked to break a specific amount of yellow blocks which rewards players with a number of boosters or an infinite amount of boosters with a time limit. Boosters can also be created within a level by combining specific numbers of the same colored blocks together.

Type

Image

Description

Potion

Groups of 4 blocks will create a potion.

Firework

Groups of 5-6 blocks will create a firework rocket.

TNT

Groups of 7-8 blocks will create TNT.

End Crystal

Groups of 9 or more blocks will create an End crystal. It will appear with the most common color on the board at that time, potentially changing after each move.

On Fire
Main article: On Fire! (Blast)
If a level is beaten first try, a pop-up will show up on the next level explaining the "On Fire" mechanic where free boosters will be randomly spawned in for the player at the start of the level. If a level is not beaten within the first try or if the player quits, the "On Fire" mechanic resets.

List of boosters

Name

Image

Unlocked

Behavior

Potion Booster

Level 1

When tapped, they will destroy all blocks directly adjacent. Activated potions will then drop on a random blocker.

Firework Rocket Booster

Level 5

When tapped, they destroy all blocks in its row or column, depending on the direction the rocket is facing. They can also be swiped and activated, moving them one block in one direction to aim for certain places.

TNT Booster

Level 5

When tapped, they will destroy a large portion of the blocks.

End Crystal Booster

Level 5

They will appear the color of whichever color is the most common on the board, potentially changing after each move. When tapped, they will destroy all blocks of its color, also affecting adjacent blocks.

Pickaxe

Level 8

The pickaxe can be used by a player to destroy a specific block within the level.

Sword

Level 12

The sword lets the player destroy a selected row of blocks which clears the row.

Shovel

Level 17

The shovel lets a player destroy a selected vertical column of blocks which clears the column.

Crossbow

Level 23

The crossbow is used to shoot three blasts of projectiles which destroy a 3×3 grid of blocks.

Elytra

Level 28

The elytra shuffles all colored blocks and automatically creates boosters.

Unused

Name

Image

Behavior

Firecharger

(It is a combo icon as the main image wasn’t found)

It can be combined with the End crystal booster to create a combo. Nothing else is known about it.

Combining
Two boosters can be combined for extra effects such as creating more boosters. The effects can differ depending on which boosters are being combined.

Combo

Behavior



Destroys blocks in a 3×3 area and creates 3 potions that drop on random blockers.



Destroys adjacent blocks and sends a potion accompanied by a firework towards a random blocker, destroying a row or column in that area, depending on the direction the rocket was facing.



Destroys adjacent blocks and sends a potion accompanied by a TNT towards a random blocker, destroying a large portion of blocks in that area.



Destroys a row and column.



Destroys 3 rows and 3 columns.



Destroys a portion of blocks larger than average TNT.



All blocks of the most common color turn into potions, which then are sent towards random blockers.



All blocks of the most common color turn into fireworks, which then destroy their respective rows or columns, depending on which direction the fireworks spawned in.



All blocks of the most common color turn into TNT, which then all destroy large portions of blocks.



Destroys the entire board. Blockers that take 2 or more hits to be destroyed are not instantly destroyed.

History
Minecraft Blast0.11
Added boosters.
Gallery
Renders






























Screenshots



			Select Boosters screen within the level screen Minecraft Blast



			In-level boosters found on the bottom



			The screen that appears when selecting the crossbow booster



			On Fire mechanic pop-up



			Create Boosters pop-up screen as seen in iPadOS


Unused combo icons



			End crystal and TNT booster



			End crystal and firecharger booster



			Firework rocket and TNT booster



			TNT and TNT booster



			End crystal and End crystal booster



			End crystal and rocket booster


Navigation