"Bred" redirects here.  For the food, see bread.
Two villagers breeding
A baby wolf with its parents
Breeding is a game mechanic that allows certain mobs, including villagers and many animals, to produce offspring.
Some mobs have similar mechanics that are not classified as breeding.

Contents

1 Mechanics

1.1 Love mode
1.2 Growing a population
1.3 Breeding foods
1.4 Villagers

2 Baby mobs
3 Similar mechanics

3.1 Allay duplication
3.2 Shulker duplication
3.3 Sulfur cube splitting

4 Achievements
5 Advancements
6 History

6.1 Development
6.2 Java Edition
6.3 Bedrock Edition
6.4 Legacy Console Edition

7 Issues
8 Gallery

8.1 Screenshots
8.2 In other media

9 See also
10 References
11 Navigation

Mechanics
A cow following the player
Most animals that can be bred have food items that can be used to lead and breed them (there are a few special cases, described below). Villagers have their own breeding mechanics (see Villager § Breeding).
Once an animal notices a player holding its food, it follows the player until either the player is out of range, the player stops holding the item, it begins the breeding process, or it is attacked. Baby animals behave the same way. Most animals are uninterested in food lying on the ground, and those that are do not breed from eating this food.
Any two adult animals of the same species can breed with each other, even if one animal is the parent of the other.

Love mode
Animals only breed when a player feeds them. One food item needs to be fed to each parent to breed a single baby.
When an animal is fed its food, it enters "love mode", preparing to breed with another animal of the same species that is also in love mode. Animals that are in love mode emit heart particles constantly‌[Bedrock Edition  only] (see MC-93826). When both animals are fed, they pathfind toward each other, up to eight blocks away. The two animals walk into each other for about two and a half seconds, which simulates kissing, and then drop 1–7XP and end love mode to produce their offspring, the method of which depends on the animal. Most animals immediately spawn a baby animal at the feet of the parents, usually of the same species as their parents. Some animals lay eggs, but the method and location they perform this varies from animal to animal. Chickens are the only animals that can both directly produce babies and lay eggs, as well as the only animals that lay eggs without being fed. After breeding, the parents cannot be fed to breed again for five minutes, but they (and their babies) always follow players holding breeding items. An animal exits love mode if it does not breed 30 seconds after being fed, but it immediately becomes able to be fed and enter love mode again.

Growing a population
Animals can be bred repeatedly to grow a large population of them. The number of animals that are produced starting from a single pair of animals, assuming the offspring are fully grown before breeding again, is represented by this sequence (OEIS A061418):
a1=2a2=3a3=4a4=6a5=9a6=13a7=19⋮an+1=⌊32an⌋⋮
where ⌊x⌋ is the floor function.
The nth term of the sequence can also be computed with this formula: an=⌈K×(3/2)n⌉ where K=1.08151366859... and ⌈x⌉ is the ceiling function. The constant K is defined to be (2/3)×K(3) (see OEIS A083286).

Breeding foods

Mob

Items

Other

Horse (Tamed)
Donkey (Tamed)

Golden Apple
Enchanted Golden Apple
Golden Carrot

These mobs must be tamed by repeatedly mounting them before they can breed. They can be tamed faster by being fed. A horse breeding with a donkey produces a mule. Mules cannot breed.
The following items cannot be used for leading or breeding, but can be used to feed an untamed horse, donkey, or mule, grow a baby, or for healing:

Sugar
Wheat
Apple
Carrot
Hay Bale

Cow
Goat
Mooshroom
Sheep

Wheat

Sheep can grow faster if they eat short grass, ferns, short dry grass, tall dry grass, or grass blocks. They cannot be hand-fed these items; they eat them only if they are placed in the world.

Pig

Carrot
Potato
Beetroot

Pigs can also be led, but not bred, with a carrot on a stick.

Chicken

Wheat Seeds
Pumpkin Seeds
Melon Seeds
Beetroot Seeds
Torchflower Seeds
Pitcher Pod

Chickens directly produce a chick when bred. They also automatically produce eggs, and do so without having to be fed.

Wolf (Tamed)

Raw Beef
Raw Chicken
Raw Porkchop
Raw Mutton
Raw Rabbit
Rotten Flesh
Steak
Cooked Chicken
Cooked Porkchop
Cooked Rabbit
Cooked Mutton
Raw Cod ‌[JE  only]
Raw Salmon ‌[JE  only]
Pufferfish ‌[JE  only]
Tropical Fish ‌[JE  only]
Cooked Cod ‌[JE  only]
Cooked Salmon ‌[JE  only]
Rabbit Stew ‌[JE  only]

Wolves must be tamed by being given enough bones before they can be fed anything else, and do not enter love mode from eating bones. Tamed wolves can be fed to restore health, and must be at full health to enter love mode. Both of the wolves have to be standing.
In Bedrock Edition, the following can also be used for healing, but cannot be used for breeding or growing a baby wolf:

Raw Cod
Raw Salmon
Pufferfish
Tropical Fish
Cooked Cod
Cooked Salmon
Rabbit Stew
In Java Edition a bowl is returned upon feeding rabbit stew.

Cat (Tamed)
Ocelot

Raw Cod
Raw Salmon

Cats must be tamed by being given enough food before they can breed. Tamed cats can be fed to restore health, and must be at full health to enter love mode. At least one of the cats has to be standing.
When fed, ocelots have a 1⁄3 chance of trusting the player that fed them, and do not run away. An ocelot does not need to be trusting to breed. In Bedrock Edition, breeding creates a baby ocelot that trusts the player.

Axolotl

Bucket of Tropical Fish

Only bucketed tropical fish can be used to breed axolotls. Tropical fish items cannot be used.
A water bucket is returned upon feeding.

Llama (Tamed)
Trader Llama (Tamed)

Hay Bale

Llamas must be tamed in order for them to be bred. They can be tamed by repeatedly mounting them. This process can be sped up by feeding them.
Wheat can also be used to feed an untamed llama, grow a baby, or for healing, but it cannot be used to lead or breed llamas.

Rabbit

Dandelion
Carrot
Golden Carrot

Rabbits always run from players unless they hold a breeding item, even if they are fed or grown from a baby by a player.

Turtle

Seagrass

Turtles lay turtle eggs on sand when bred, which take a few days to hatch into baby turtles. They lay eggs only at the place they spawned or were hatched. Turtle eggs can only be obtained using Silk Touch. They only hatch when placed on sand, and they hatch significantly faster at night. Turtle eggs can be trampled and broken, and zombies and their variants do so deliberately.

Panda

Bamboo

Pandas can eat bamboo and other food items without player input, but breed only when fed by a player.
In Java Edition, pandas breed only if there is at least one bamboo plant (not including shoots) within a 7×7×3 area.
In Bedrock Edition, pandas breed only if there are at least eight bamboo plants placed in a radius of five blocks around them.
Although pandas can eat cake, they cannot be bred with it.

Fox

Sweet Berries
Glow Berries

Foxes can eat berries and other food items without player input, but breed only when fed by a player.
The baby fox always trusts the player who bred the foxes, even when it grows up, and does not run away when approached.

Bee

Flowers
Mangrove Propagule
Flowering Azalea
Flowering Azalea Leaves
Cherry Leaves
Pink Petals
Wildflowers
Spore Blossom
Cactus Flower
Chorus Flower

All flowers and flowering blocks work. Feeding bees wither roses or open eyeblossoms gives them the Wither or Poison effect, respectively, without angering them or triggering love mode.

Strider

Warped Fungus

Striders can also be led, but not bred, with a warped fungus on a stick.

Hoglin

Crimson Fungus

Hoglins continue to attack during the breeding process. Hoglins that are fleeing from warped fungi, nether portals, or respawn anchors cannot be bred.
Zoglins cannot breed.

Frog

Slimeball

Frogs lay eggs on water that take ten minutes to hatch into tadpoles. These eggs cannot be obtained in item form or moved.

Camel

Cactus

Although they are fed cactus to breed and do not take damage from it, camels still take damage from touching it when it is placed in the world.

Sniffer

Torchflower Seeds

Sniffers lay eggs when bred, which take twenty minutes (or ten, if the egg is placed on a moss block) to hatch into a snifflet. They lay their eggs in item form, and they must be placed by a player.

Armadillo

Spider Eye

When an armadillo is rolled up, it can't eat.

Nautilus (Tamed)

Bucket of Cod
Bucket of Pufferfish
Bucket of Salmon
Bucket of Tropical Fish
Cooked Cod
Cooked Salmon
Pufferfish
Raw Cod
Raw Salmon
Tropical Fish

Nautiluses must be tamed by being given enough pufferfish before they can breed. When a nautilus eats a pufferfish, it does not inflict them with the hunger, poison, and nausea effects.
When a bucketed fish item is fed to a nautilus, a water bucket is returned after feeding.

Villagers
Main article: Villager § Breeding
A group of villager children playing tag
Unlike most mobs that can breed, villagers do not automatically breed when given food. Villager breeding depends on both the number of valid beds in the area (see the village page for full details), as well as whether the villagers are "willing." A villager may become willing if they have 3 bread or 12 carrots/potatoes/beetroots in their inventory. They may also become willing as a result of trading with a player. When they breed, they produce a baby villager. Zombie villagers and wandering traders cannot breed, and baby zombie villagers do not grow up as long as they're not cured.

Baby mobs
Main article: Baby
Baby mobs are smaller variations of their adult counterparts, having small bodies, relatively big heads (with some exceptions), and faster walking speeds. Most baby animals choose and follow an adult within 8 blocks of the same species, regardless of whether it is their parent.
Most baby mobs take 20 minutes to grow up, while snifflets take 40 minutes. This can be accelerated by feeding them their breeding item.

Similar mechanics
Allay duplication
An allay duplicating
If an allay is given an amethyst shard while it is dancing due to a nearby jukebox playing any music disc, it splits into two allays (itself and a new allay) and the amethyst shard is consumed. After duplication, both allays have a five minute cooldown before being able to duplicate again. Allays do not have a baby form.

Shulker duplication
There is a chance for a new shulker of the same color to spawn when a shulker is hit with a shulker bullet (including one of its own).
The following conditions must be met:

When the shulker gets hit and then has less than half its health remaining, there is a 25% chance for it to teleport without spawning a new shulker instead of checking the conditions below.
The hit shulker must have its lid open.
The hit shulker needs to find somewhere to teleport. For this, it takes a random block in a 17×17×17 cuboid centered on the shulker and then checks if the block has a valid face to teleport to. If not it proceeds to try this up to 4 more times. If no valid face is found, the attempt fails.
Each other shulker within 8 blocks of the hit shulker decreases the odds of success by 20%. When five or more other shulkers are nearby, no shulkers can spawn, but the hit shulker still teleports.
If the attempt succeeds a new shulker spawns where the old shulker was before it teleported. Shulkers do not have a baby form, and, other than the above criteria, have no duplication cooldown.

Sulfur cube splitting
When a large sulfur cube dies by any method other than its own explosion, two small sulfur cubes are spawned, which will grow into large sulfur cubes after 20 minutes. They can be fed slimeballs to increase their growing speed.

Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherRepopulationBreed two cows with wheat.Breed two cows or two mooshrooms.15BronzeZoologistBreed two pandas with bamboo.—40Gold
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)The Parrots and the BatsBreed two animals together
Breed a pair of any of these 27 animals:

Armadillo
Axolotl
Bee
Camel
Cat
Chicken
Cow
Donkey
Fox
Frog
Goat
Hoglin
Horse
Llama
Mooshroom
Mule
Nautilus
Ocelot
Panda
Pig
Rabbit
Sheep
Sniffer
Strider
Trader Llama
Turtle
Wolf

A mule must be the result of breeding a horse and a donkey for this advancement as they are not breedable together. Other breedable mobs are ignored for this advancement.Two by TwoBreed all the animals!
Breed a pair of each of these 26 animals:

Armadillo
Axolotl
Bee
Camel
Cat
Chicken
Cow
Donkey
Fox
Frog
Goat
Hoglin
Horse
Llama
Mooshroom
Mule
Nautilus
Ocelot
Panda
Pig
Rabbit
Sheep
Sniffer
Strider
Turtle
Wolf

A trader llama does not count as a llama, and a mule must be the result of breeding a horse and a donkey for this advancement as they are not breedable together. Other breedable mobs can be bred, but are ignored for this advancement.
History
Development
September 9, 2011
Jeb tweets that animal breeding is pushed to Beta 1.9.September 25, 2011
Notch also tweets an image of dozens of sheep crowded together, saying "They won't stop breeding!!!"
Java Edition
Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
Introduced breeding. Cows, mooshrooms, sheep, pigs, and chickens follow players holding wheat and enter love mode when fed wheat.

Animals breed instantly, without any "cooldown".

No baby animals yet; all animals are born fully-grown.

All sheep are born with white wool, irrespective of their parentage.

Snow golems can enter love mode when fed with wheat; when in love mode, they attack other snow golems, do not seek for a partner and cannot actually breed. Snow golems also attack players holding wheat.

Untamed wolves can enter love mode when fed with wheat, but they do not seek for a partner, cannot actually breed, and do not follow players holding wheat.October 3, 2011
Notch tweets the first image of a baby cow and a baby pig.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
Added baby cows, baby mooshrooms, baby sheep, baby pigs, and baby chickens. Newborn animals are spawned as babies instead of adults. Babies cannot be led with wheat and wander on their own instead of following adult mobs.

After breeding, animals enter a 5-minute cooldown before they can enter love mode again. During this cooldown, adult animals follow baby animals of the same type and cannot be led with wheat.

Added baby wolves, only obtainable via external editors as wolves cannot breed.

Snow golems can no longer enter love mode and no longer attack players holding wheat.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
In multiplayer, baby animals are now correctly rendered as babies instead of adults.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
Baby sheep can be either of their parents' colors, even if they were dyed.1.2.112w03a
Tamed wolves can be bred with any type of meat to produce babies. Untamed wolves can no longer be fed with wheat; they enter love mode if fed with meat, but they cannot breed.12w04a
Cats (tamed ocelots) can be bred with raw fish for babies.12w07a
Added baby villagers. Villagers automatically enter love mode and breed in order to repopulate a village, based on the amount of houses available.

Baby animals and adult animals during breeding cooldown now follow players holding wheat.

Baby animals now follow adults, and adults in breeding cooldown no longer follow babies.1.3.112w18a
As a result of singleplayer being changed to an internal server, successful breeding no longer produces a burst of heart particles.12w22a
Breeding now give experience.1.4.212w32a
Zombies that infect baby villagers now create baby zombie villagers, which are faster than normal zombies, do not age, and survive in sunlight.

Added baby zombies and baby zombie pigmen, only available via external editors.12w36a
Pigs are now responsive to carrots, chickens to seeds, with cows and sheep still breeding with wheat.1.4.41.4.3
Baby sheep now have a mix of the parents' colors, if the parents' colors are 'compatible' (able to be crafted together as dyes).pre
Baby animals can be spawned by using a spawn egg on an adult animal of the same type. This does not work with zombies and zombie pigmen.1.513w06a
Baby mobs now have smaller hitboxes compared to their adult counterparts.1.6.113w16a
Added horses and donkeys, which can breed using golden apples or golden carrots to produce babies. Breeding a horse and a donkey together produces a baby mule, which is infertile.1.6.2pre
Baby zombies and baby zombie pigmen now spawn naturally among regular ones. Like baby zombie villagers, they do not grow up.1.814w02a
Baby animals can be grown faster by being fed. Each feeding reduces the remaining time to maturity by 10%, having no effect if less than 9 seconds remain. 28 feedings reduce the remaining time to around a minute, from the initial time of 20 minutes. In addition, baby sheep reach maturity one minute sooner for every time they consume grass.14w26c
Wheat's acceleration of baby horses growth has been reduced.14w27a
Added rabbits, which can be bred using dandelions, carrots or golden carrots to produce babies.

Wolves can now be bred using raw rabbit, cooked rabbit, raw mutton and cooked mutton.pre1
Chickens can no longer be bred using melon seeds, pumpkin seeds or Nether wart.1.915w31a
Chickens now use melon seeds, pumpkin seeds and beetroot seeds to breed, in addition to wheat seeds.15w33c
Heart particles no longer continuously appear while a mob is in love mode.1.1016w20a
Added polar bears and their baby variant. Polar bears cannot breed; babies spawn naturally and grow up on their own.

Added husks and baby husks, which do not grow up.1.1116w39a
Added llamas, which can be bred using hay bales to produce babies.1.1318w07a
Added turtles, which can be bred using raw cod. Unlike other animals, which immediately produce a baby, one of the two turtles lays eggs which eventually hatch into baby turtles.18w07b
Turtles are now bred using seagrass instead of raw cod.18w11a
Added drowned and baby drowned, which do not grow up.1.1418w43a
Added pandas, which can be bred using bamboo to produce babies if certain conditions are met.18w44a
Ocelots and cats can no longer be bred using pufferfish and tropical fish.19w07a
Added foxes, which can be bred using sweet berries to produce babies.19w14a
Successful breeding once again produces a burst of heart particles.1.1519w34a
Added bees, which can be bred using flowers to produce babies.19w37a
5% of cows, mooshrooms, sheep, pigs, and chickens, and 10% of wolves, llamas, and horses now naturally spawn as babies.19w46a
Drowned, husk, zombie, and zombie villager spawn eggs can now be used on adult versions of these mobs to spawn baby variants.1.1620w07a
Added baby hoglins.

Hoglins can now be bred using crimson fungi.

Added piglins and baby piglins, which do not grow up.20w13a
Added striders, which can be bred using warped fungi to produce babies.20w14a
Added zoglins and baby zoglins, which do now grow up.1.1720w51a
Added axolotls, which can be bred using tropical fish or buckets of tropical fish to produce babies.21w13a
Added goats, which can be bred using wheat to produce babies.21w20a
Axolots can only be fed buckets of tropical fish.1.1922w11a
Added frogs, which can be bred using slimeballs. Unlike most other animals, which immediately produce a baby, one of the two frogs lays frogspawn, which eventually hatches into tadpoles.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w42a
Added camels, which can be bred using cactus to produce babies.22w44a
Turtles now have a breeding delay like other mobs.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Added sniffers, which can be bred using torchflower seeds to produce snifflets.1.2023w12a
Breeding sniffers now produces a sniffer egg, which, once placed, eventually hatches into a snifflet.1.20.523w51a
Added armadillos, which can be bred using spider eyes to produce babies.1.21.224w33a
Added baby squid, baby glow squid, and baby dolphins.

Wolves can now be bred using fish and rabbit stew.1.21.625w15a
Added happy ghasts and ghastlings.1.21.1125w41a
Added nautiluses, which can be bred using fish and buckets of fish to produce babies.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.2.0
Added sheep and baby sheep, pigs and baby pigs.

Baby animals exist in the game, though there is currently no way to get them to spawn.v0.3.0
Added cows and baby cows, chickens and baby chickens.v0.6.0
Baby animals now spawn naturally. Breeding has not been added yet.v0.8.0build 1
Introduced breeding. Animals follow players holding specific food (wheat for cows and sheep, wheat seeds for chickens, carrots or potatoes for pigs).

Cows and sheep can be fed wheat to enter love mode and breed, but pigs and chickens cannot be fed yet.build 4
Pigs and chickens can be fed food to enter love mode and breed.

In addition to wheat seeds, chickens can be fed pumpkin seeds, melon seeds and beetroot seeds, but don't follow players holding them.v0.9.0build 1
Added mooshrooms and baby mooshrooms.v0.11.0build 11
Mobs must be touching to breed (previously they could breed with any mob in an 8 block radius, regardless of obstruction).

Added baby zombies, which do not grow up.v0.12.1build 1
Villagers can now breed.

Breeding is now done through a Feed button.

Added baby zombie villagers, which do not grow up.

Added baby ocelots and tamed baby cats.v0.13.0build 1
Added rabbits and baby rabbits.v0.14.0build 1
Baby zombies, baby zombie villagers, and baby zombie pigmen now have 15% chance to mount mobs.v0.15.0build 1
Added husks and baby husks, which do not grow up.

Added horses, donkeys, and mules. Baby variants of these mobs exist, but only horses and donkeys can be bred.

Added zombie horses and skeleton horses, which include baby variants that do not grow up.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
Added polar bears and baby polar bears. Unlike other mobs, polar bears will attack the player if they get too close to the polar bear's cub.1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
Added llamas and baby llamas.Bedrock Edition1.2.13beta 1.2.13.8
Added drowned and baby drowned, which do not grow up.1.4.0beta 1.2.20.1
Added dolphins, which can be bred to produce baby dolphins.

Baby zombies now burn in daylight.1.5.0beta 1.5.0.0
Baby zombies now sink underwater, rather than swimming.

Breeding dolphins is no longer possible, as feeding dolphins raw fish now causes them to lead you towards an ocean structure instead, of entering love mode.

Baby dolphins now spawn naturally.beta 1.5.0.4
Added turtles and baby turtles.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.8
Added pandas and baby pandas.

Added seven more cat textures and their baby variants.

Feeding ocelots now breed them, instead of taming them.

Feeding a baby ocelot raw fish now increase its growth speed, instead of taming it.1.11.0beta 1.11.0.3
Trader llamas can no longer breed.1.13.0beta 1.13.0.1
Added foxes and baby foxes.1.14.0beta 1.14.0.1
Added bees and baby bees.1.16.0beta 1.16.0.51
Added piglins and baby piglins, which do not grow up.

Added hoglins and baby hoglins, which do grow up.beta 1.16.0.57
Added zoglins and baby zoglins, which do not grow up.

Added striders and baby striders, which do grow up.1.16.200beta 1.16.200.52
Added goats and baby goats.1.16.210ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.16.210.59
Added glow squid and baby glow squid.1.17.0ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.16.230.52
Added axolotls and baby axolotls.1.18.10ExperimentWild Updatebeta 1.18.10.24
Added frogs and tadpoles.1.19.0Preview 1.19.0.29
Trader llamas can be bred again.1.19.50Preview 1.19.50.21
Added camels and baby camels.1.19.70ExperimentSnifferPreview 1.19.70.23
Added sniffers and snifflets.1.20.60ExperimentArmadillo and Wolf ArmorPreview 1.20.60.23
Added armadillos and baby armadillos.1.20.70ExperimentArmadillo and Wolf ArmorPreview 1.20.70.21
When fed, baby mobs now emit both sounds and particles.1.20.80Preview 1.20.80.20
Armadillos and baby armadillos are now available without using the "Armadillo and Wolf Armor" experimental toggle.1.21.80ExperimentDrop 2 2025Preview 1.21.80.25
Added happy ghasts and ghastlings.1.21.130Preview 1.21.130.20
Added nautiluses and baby nautiluses.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU7CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added breeding.
Wolves can be bred, a feature from Java Edition 1.2.1.
Chickens can be bred with seeds or Nether wart, a feature from Java Edition 1.4.2.TU11
Added a message when the player tries to breed an animal when the spawn limits have been reached.TU12
Added baby villagers.TU13
Added a limit to the amount of villagers spawned by breeding.TU141.04
Baby mobs can be spawned by using  on that mob using its spawn egg.
Pigs are now responsive to carrots instead of wheat.TU19CU71.121.121.12
Added horses and donkeys, which can breed using golden apples or golden carrots to produce babies. Breeding a horse and a donkey together produces a baby mule, which is infertile.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Baby animals can be grown faster by being fed. Each feeding reduces the remaining time to maturity by 10%.
Added rabbits, which can be bred using dandelions, carrots or golden carrots to produce babies.TU43CU331.361.361.36Patch 13
Added polar bears and their baby variant. Polar bears cannot breed; babies spawn naturally and grow up on their own.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Added husks and baby husks, which do not grow up.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Added llamas, which can be bred using hay bales to produce babies.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Added turtles, which can be bred using sea grass. Unlike other animals, which immediately produce a baby, one of the two turtles lays eggs which eventually hatch into baby turtles.
Added dolphins and their baby variant. Dolphins cannot breed; babies spawn naturally and grow up on their own.
Added drowned and baby drowned, which do not grow up.  1.83
Added pandas, which can be bred using bamboo to produce babies if certain conditions are met.
Issues
Issues relating to "Breeding" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Screenshots



			A family of wolves in a snowy plains biome as well as a baby cat.



			Early image of sheep breeding.



			Early image of baby animals.



			Two villagers breeding.



			A group of villagers breeding underground.



			Two axolotls breeding.


In other media



			A family of pandas breeding to create a baby as seen in A Minecraft Movie.


See also
Tutorial:Animal farming
References

 MC-93826

 MC-137306 – Turtles don't have breeding delay – resolved as "Fixed".

Navigation