Potion brewing chart (most efficient recipes, excludes splash and lingering potions) for Java Edition. Recipes may differ in Bedrock Edition.
Brewing is the process of creating potions, splash potions, lingering potions, and medicine‌[Minecraft Education  only] by adding different ingredients to water bottles and other potions in a brewing stand.

Contents

1 Brewing equipment
2 Ingredients

2.1 Base ingredients and modifiers

2.1.1 Enhancement
2.1.2 Corrupting effect
2.1.3 Splash and lingering potions

2.2 Effect ingredients

3 Brewing recipes

3.1 Base potions
3.2 Effect potions

3.2.1 Positive effects
3.2.2 Negative effects
3.2.3 Mixed effects
3.2.4 Bedrock Edition exclusive recipes

3.3 Cures
3.4 Un-brewable potions
3.5 Custom recipes

4 History

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition
4.3 Legacy Console Edition

5 Issues
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Textures

8 See also
9 References
10 External links
11 Navigation

Brewing equipment

Name

Icon

Use

Brewing stand

Used to brew potions using ingredients and water. Each brewing operation takes 20 seconds (400 game ticks).

Water

A water source block can be used to fill infinite glass bottles.

Blaze powder

Fuels the brewing stand. Holds 20 charges.

Water bottle

The starting base for all potions, made by filling a glass bottle from a cauldron or a water source block.

Ingredients
There is no provided in-game recipe book for brewing.

Base ingredients and modifiers
Base ingredients are ingredients that can be added directly to a water bottle. Nether warts are used to make awkward potions, and are the fundamental of the base ingredients, as it is required to make the majority of potions.
Modifiers are ingredients used to alter the properties of a potion or to change a potion effect into a different one. The fermented spider eye is unique as it is the only modifier that can convert a water bottle directly into a usable potion.
Different potions can be placed in the bottle slots to combine each of them separately with the modifier, such as brewing a Potion of Invisibility and a Potion of Fire Resistance with gunpowder to change both potions into splash potions.

Name

Icon

When added to water bottle

When added as a modifier

Nether wart

Awkward potion

—

Redstone dust

Mundane potion

Extends the duration of a potion.

Glowstone dust

Thick potion

Increases the level of a potion.

Fermented spider eye

Potion of Weakness

Changes the effect of a potion.

Gunpowder

Splash water bottle

Turns a potion into a splash potion.

Dragon's breath

Lingering water bottle  (from splash water bottle)

Turns a splash potion into a lingering potion.

Enhancement
Generally, upgrading a potion involves a trade-off between duration and potency. A potion with an enhanced effect has shorter duration, and a potion with extended duration cannot have an enhanced effect. However:

Upgrading the effect of a potion that has no time parameter (e.g. Instant Health) with glowstone dust involves no trade-off.
Increasing the time of a potion that has no effects with different levels (e.g. Fire Resistance) with redstone dust involves no trade-off.
Corrupting effect
A fermented spider eye changes a potion's base effect, often reversing it or producing a negative potion.

A corrupted potion usually does the opposite of the original effect.
Corrupting an enhanced or extended potion into an effect that supports the modifier results in a potion with the same modifier applied.
Enhanced potions of Leaping or Swiftness cannot be corrupted.
In Bedrock Edition, potions of Strength II corrupt into regular potions of Weakness.
A potion of Invisibility is considered the "corrupted" version of a potion of Night Vision.
Splash potion brewed using gunpowder.
Splash and lingering potions
By adding gunpowder, a drinking potion can be turned into a splash potion, which can be thrown to coat entities within the place of impact with a status effect. Subsequently, adding dragon's breath to a splash potion makes a lingering potion, creating a cloud that inflicts effects on entities that enter its area.

Splash potions and lingering potions can be modified in the same manner as their normal counterparts. For instance, a splash water bottle can be brewed with any of the base ingredients; the result remains a splash potion.
The lingering potions can also be used to craft their respective versions of tipped arrows.
In Bedrock Edition there is an easier way of using cauldrons for the same effect.
Splash potions have the same duration as the drinkable form.
Lingering potions have only one-fourth of the duration of the drinkable form. For instance, a drinkable potion effect of 8:00 is reduced to 2:00 as a lingering potion.
Effect ingredients
Effect ingredients imbue an awkward potion with a particular effect but do not alter potion duration or intensity. When added directly to a water bottle, most of these ingredients produce a mundane potion. The exceptions to this are the golden carrot, pufferfish, turtle shell, and phantom membrane, which cannot be added directly to a water bottle. A corrupted version of a potion can be made by adding a fermented spider eye to it.

Effect ingredients

Name

Icon

Effect

Effect when corrupted

Sugar

Speed

Slowness

Rabbit's Foot

Jump Boost

Glistering Melon Slice

Instant Health

Instant Damage

Spider Eye

Poison

Blaze Powder

Strength

None‌[JE  only]  Weakness‌[BE  only]

Golden Carrot

Night Vision

Invisibility

Ghast Tear

Regeneration

None

Pufferfish

Water Breathing

Magma Cream

Fire Resistance

Turtle Shell

Slowness + Resistance

Phantom Membrane

Slow Falling

Breeze Rod

Wind Charged

Stone

Infested

Cobweb

Weaving

Fermented Spider Eye

Weakness

Slime Block

Oozing

Brewing recipes
Base potions
Base potions are potions without effects, brewed by adding a single base ingredient to a water bottle. Of these, only the awkward potion can be imbued with an effect ingredient to create a potion with an effect.‌[Java Edition  only]

Base potions

Potion

Recipe(s)

Precursor to

Awkward potion

Effect potions

Mundane potion

None‌[JE  only] Potion of Weakness‌[BE  only]

Thick potion

None‌[JE  only] Potion of Weakness‌[BE  only]

Effect potions
Effect potions are primarily created by adding an effect ingredient to an awkward potion, which is created by adding nether wart to a water bottle. Certain effects require a potion to be corrupted by a fermented spider eye. The potion of Weakness can additionally be created by simply adding a fermented spider eye to a water bottle, and it is the only potion that can be brewed without nether wart.
Undead mobs react differently to effects than other mobs. They take damage from potions of Healing, gain health from potions of Harming, and are unaffected by potions of Poison and Regeneration.

Positive effects

Potion

Recipe

 Extended

 Enhanced

Effects

Potion of Healing

—

Potion of Healing

Instant Health: Restores health by 4HP.
Enhanced:Instant Health II: Restores health by 8HP.

Potion of Fire Resistance( 3:00)

Potion of Fire Resistance( 8:00)

—

Fire Resistance: Gives immunity to damage from fire, lava, magma blocks, campfires, and blazes' fireballs.

Potion of Regeneration( 0:45)

Potion of Regeneration( 1:30‌[JE  only] 2:00‌[BE  only])

Potion of Regeneration( 0:22)

Regeneration: Restores health by  every 2.5 seconds.
Enhanced:Regeneration II: Restores health by  every 1.25 seconds.

Potion of Strength( 3:00)

Potion of Strength( 8:00)

Potion of Strength( 1:30)

Strength: Increases player's melee attack damage by 3HP.
Enhanced:Strength II: Increases player's melee attack damage by 6HP.

Potion of Swiftness( 3:00)

Potion of Swiftness( 8:00)

Potion of Swiftness( 1:30)

Speed: Increases movement speed, sprinting speed, and jumping length by 20%.
Enhanced:Speed II: Increases movement speed, sprinting speed, and jumping length by 40%.

Potion of Night Vision( 3:00)

Potion of Night Vision( 8:00)

—

Night Vision: Makes everything appear to be at the maximum light level, including underwater areas.

Potion of Invisibility( 3:00)

Potion of Invisibility( 8:00)

—

Invisibility: Renders the player invisible. Equipped items are still visible.

Potion of Water Breathing( 3:00)

Potion of Water Breathing( 8:00)

—

Water Breathing: Prevents the oxygen bar from depleting when underwater.

Potion of Leaping( 3:00)

Potion of Leaping( 8:00)

Potion of Leaping( 1:30)

Jump Boost: Increases jump height by 50%.
Enhanced:Jump Boost II: Increases jump height by 150%.

Potion of Slow Falling( 1:30)

Potion of Slow Falling( 4:00)

—

Slow Falling: Significantly reduces fall speed and acceleration and negates all fall damage.

Negative effects

Potion

Recipe(s)

 Extended

 Enhanced

Effects

Notes

Potion of Poison( 0:45)

Potion of Poison( 1:30‌[JE  only] 2:00‌[BE  only])

Potion of Poison( 0:21‌[JE  only] 0:22‌[BE  only]))

Poison: Depletes health by 1HP every 1.25 seconds.
Enhanced:Poison II: Depletes health by 1HP every 0.6 seconds.

—

Potion of Weakness( 1:30)

Potion of Weakness( 4:00)

—

Weakness: Reduces player's melee attack damage by 4HP.

Can be used in combination with a golden apple to cure zombie villagers.

Potion of Harming

—

Potion of Harming

Instant Damage: Inflicts 6HP damage.
Enhanced:Instant Damage II: Inflicts 12HP × 6 damage.

—

Potion of Slowness( 1:30)

Potion of Slowness( 4:00)

Potion of Slowness( 0:20)

Slowness: Reduces movement speed by 15%.
Enhanced:Slowness IV: Reduces movement speed by 60%.

—

Potion of Oozing( 3:00)

—

—

Oozing: Spawns two medium sized slimes nearby when killed

—

Potion of Weaving( 3:00)

—

—

Weaving:
Spawns 2–3 cobwebs nearby when killed
Doubles walking speed through cobwebs (from 25% to 50%)

—

Potion of Infestation( 3:00)

—

—

Infested: Has a 10% chance to spawn 1–2 silverfish nearby when hit

—

Potion of Wind Charging( 3:00)

—

—

Wind Charged: Emits a wind burst when killed

—

Mixed effects

Potion

Recipe

 Extended

 Enhanced

Effects

Potion of the Turtle Master(0:20)

Potion of the Turtle Master(0:40)

Potion of the Turtle Master(0:20)

Slowness IV, Resistance III: Reduces movement speed by 60% and reduces incoming damage by 60%.
Enhanced:Slowness VI, Resistance IV: Reduces movement speed by 90% and reduces incoming damage by 80%.

Bedrock Edition exclusive recipes
Brewing recipes in Bedrock Edition are a superset of that in Java Edition, which means that all Java Edition recipes are also available in Bedrock Edition, but not the other way round.

Potion
Recipe
Effect
Notes

Potion of Weakness( 1:30)

Weakness: Reduces player's melee attack damage by 4HP.

—

Potions of Strength II are brewed into regular potions of Weakness.

Cures



This section describes an education-related feature. 
This feature is available only in Minecraft Education or when enabling the "Minecraft Education features" cheat setting in Bedrock Edition.

Cures are brewed from awkward potions using different elements. Drinking these removes the specified bad effect. They cannot be modified into splash, lingering, extended, or enhanced versions.

Potion

Recipe

Effect

Antidote

Cures Poison

Elixir

Cures Weakness

Eye drops

Cures Blindness

Tonic

Cures Nausea

Un-brewable potions
The uncraftable potion, potion of Luck‌[JE  only] and the potion of Decay‌[BE  only] cannot be brewed, and can be obtained only through commands or the Creative inventory (potions of Decay‌[BE  only] can be found in cauldrons inside swamp huts; the cauldron has a chance to generate containing a random potion, with potion of Decay‌[BE  only] being one possibility).

Custom recipes



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Main article: Recipe
In Bedrock Edition, brewing recipes can be customized through addons using the same system as other recipes.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition?
The brewing system was originally meant to be procedural, meaning that the recipes were meant to be different each time one generated a Minecraft world.1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
Initially, the cauldron was where potions were brewed, though cauldrons were not assigned a block ID, rendering potions unobtainable except through modding the cauldron so that it would be obtainable. When the cauldron was obtained, potions could be brewed by adding water to the cauldron followed by certain ingredients. Correctly combined ingredients would confer purely beneficial potion effects, and incorrect combinations added negative effects. The system was complicated, lacked a GUI, and formed many duplicate potions (i.e. two potions that were the same could be made in several different ways), so Notch and Jeb came up with a new brewing method using a brewing stand.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
A brewing GUI was added and most duplicate potions were removed (the total possible potions went down from 150 combinations to only 25 different potions in 31 combinations). Some status effects available in earlier 1.9 pre-releases as potions became inaccessible (e.g. Nausea, Blindness, and Invisibility).Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Throwable splash potions are introduced, brewed by placing gunpowder and any potion together in a brewing stand.

Glistering melon slice was added to be the ingredient for the potion of Healing; the ghast tear, which previously served this purpose, is now used for the potion of Regeneration instead.

Converted certain ingredients into base-secondary ingredients (the spider eye, glistering melon and blaze powder made mundane potion when brewed into a water bottle in addition to their previous functions), bringing the potion total to 28 different potions in 35 combinations.1.112w01a
The time to brew potions was decreased to 20 seconds.1.4.212w34a
Brewing recipes for potions of Night Vision and Invisibility added.1.513w01a
Hoppers added, which can move items in and out of brewing stands.1.7.213w36a
Added potion of Water Breathing.1.814w27a
Added potion of Leaping.1.8.1pre1
The potion of Leaping can now be extended using redstone.1.915w31a
Redstone and glowstone dust can no longer be added to already enhanced or extended potions, respectively.

Fermented spider eyes can no longer be added to enhanced potions of Speed or Leaping, but can still be added to extended potions of Poison.

Potions of Weakness can no longer be made using a thick potion, mundane potion, awkward potion, potion of Regeneration, or potion of Strength.

Potions of Slowness can no longer be made using a potion of Fire Resistance.

Potions of Harming can no longer be made using a potion of Water Breathing.

Removed reverted potions and "extended" mundane potion, as well as unused potion IDs. See Java Edition removed features § Potions for more information.

Splash potions can now be created from all potions, including water bottles.
Splash potions now have the same duration as drinkable potions.15w33a
Added lingering potions.
The durations of extended potions of Regeneration and Poison have been reduced from 2:00 to 1:30. The duration of strong potions of poison has been reduced from 0:22.5 to 0:21.6.15w42a
Blaze powder is now required as fuel for brewing.15w43a
Blaze powder as fuel reduced from 30 points to 20.1.1318w07a
Added potion of the Turtle Master.18w14a
Added potion of Slow Falling.1.19.4Pre-release 1
Potions no longer have an enchantment glint.Pre-release 3
Changed colors of following potions: Swiftness, Slowness, Strength, Harming, Leaping, Fire Resistance, Water Breathing, Invisibility, Night Vision, Poison, Turtle Master.1.20.5ExperimentUpdate 1.2124w13a
Added potion of Infestation, Oozing, Weaving, and Wind Charging.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.12.1build 1
Added potions and brewing.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
Added lingering potions.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Blaze powder is now required as fuel for brewing.1.4.0beta 1.2.20.1
Added four new potions known as cures: antidote, elixir, eye drops, and tonic.1.5.0beta 1.5.0.4
Added potion of Turtle Master.1.6.0beta 1.6.0.5
Added potion of Slow Falling.1.19.80Preview 1.19.80.21
Potions no longer have an enchantment glint.

Changed colors of following potions: Fire Resistance, Harming, Invisibility, Leaping, Night Vision, Poison, Slowness, Strength, Swiftness, Turtle Master, and Water Breathing.1.21.0ExperimentUpdate 1.21Preview 1.21.0.20
Added potion of Infestation, Oozing, Weaving, and Wind Charging.1.21.0Preview 1.21.0.23
Splash potions now have the same duration as drinkable potions.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU7CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added potions and brewing.TU141.04
Potions of Night Vision and Invisibility added.TU19CU71.121.121.12
Hoppers added, which can move items in and out of brewing stands.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Added potions of Leaping and Water Breathing.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Lingering potions added.
Blaze powder is now required as fuel for brewing.
Splash potions now have the same duration as drinkable potions.
The durations of extended potions of Regeneration and Poison have been reduced from 2:00 to 1:30. The duration of strong potions of poison has been reduced from 0:22.5 to 0:21.6.TU57CU491.571.561.56Patch 271.0.7
Splash potions only have 3⁄4 of the duration of drinkable potions again.
The durations of extended potions of Regeneration and Poison have been increased from 1:30 back to 2:00. The duration of strong potions of poison has been increased from 0:21.6 back to 0:22.5.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Added potions of the Turtle Master and Slow Falling.
Issues
Issues relating to "Brewing" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Although Jeb said that in Java Edition Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3 there would be 161 possible different potion combinations with 2,653 in the future, in the actual third pre-release only 22 different potions could be made without the use of external programs. Of those, 19 potions had one of 8 different effects.
By modifying the item NBT using an editor or commands, it is possible to get a potion that cannot be upgraded into a splash potion.
Gallery
Textures



			Texture file for the brewing user interface before 1.20.2 in Java Edition


See also
Crafting
Enchanting
Medicine‌[Minecraft Education  only]
Smelting
References

 "The Mundane Potion is a remnant of an abandoned procedural brewing system—meaning that the recipes were meant to be different each time you generated a Minecraft world. But this didn't turn out to be much fun for the player and the system was abandoned, leaving the Mundane Potion without a purpose. "It's sort of like an appendix," says Jens" – Tom Stone, February 21, 2017

 "A quick discussion with @notch led me in on a new way of doing the potion brewing. Cauldron is out..."  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), September 30, 2011

External links
Minecraft Forum: All About Potions And Brewing - 1.9 Reference Guide
Minecraft Potions - A Visual Guide
Minecraft Commands - A Searchable Minecraft Database
Navigation