This article is about the official Mojang bug tracker.   For a list of pages where issues were previously recorded, see Minecraft Wiki:Issues.

 "Bug" redirects here.  For the mob type, see Arthropod.

Bug tracker

Type

Bug tracker (Jira)

Owner

Mojang Studios

Founded

October 23, 2012

Website

https://bugs.mojang.com  https://report.bugs.mojang.com

{
    "title": "Bug tracker",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Bug tracker ((link to wikipedia:Jira (software) article, displayed as Jira))",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Owner"
        },
        {
            "field": "October 23, 2012",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "https://bugs.mojang.com <br> https://report.bugs.mojang.com",
            "label": "Website"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "New Bug tracker.png"
    ]
}

The Mojang Bug Tracker (also known as Mojira) is the official website for players to report bugs for Minecraft. It uses Atlassian's Jira platform. Similar to Crowdin, it is community moderated.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Announcement
1.2 Migration

2 Projects
3 Videos
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Logos

6 References
7 External links
8 Navigation

History
The first screenshot of the bug tracker.
Previously, the issues page on the Minecraft Wiki was used to maintain issue reports. Many people complained that the process was too complicated.
Due to the high demand for a proper bug tracker instead of using the wiki, Mojang contacted Atlassian, which became their choice due to being flexible and customizable.
An email was sent to Atlassian to gain help on making a proper bug tracker. Atlassian immediately offered to help, providing a free JIRA license. A video was published to showcase their improved JIRA developer's API for JIRA v5.0.

Announcement
“Although this new Minecraft bug tracker will mostly be community organized and run, it will be the official location to report bugs in Minecraft that we’ll be keeping an eye on. [...] We’ll be using this new bug tracker for all future releases of Minecraft. If you’re already familiar with JIRA and want to get right into reporting a bug, go check out the new Minecraft Bug Tracker here!„ — Mojang
On October 24, 2012, the bug tracker was officially released by Erik Broes and Atlassian using their issue tracker, JIRA.

Migration
From February 10, 2025, the bug tracker started migrating from the deprecated Jira Server to a newer cloud-based Jira service because Atlassian has ended support for the Jira Server software. The migration includes all bug reports, but user accounts required explicit permission until February 10 (extended from January 31). The new service was scheduled to be opened on February 12, but it opened on February 18.
The previous bug tracker was available in a read only state at bugs-legacy.mojang.com.

Projects
The following projects are currently present or were once present on the bug tracker:

Project

Key

Supported?

Accessible?

Description

Link

Minecraft: Java Edition

MC

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for Minecraft: Java Edition.

Mojira - MC Issues
Minecraft: Java Edition - Jira Service Management

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition

MCPE

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.

Mojira - MCPE Issues
Minecraft: Bedrock Edition - Jira Service Management

Bedrock Dedicated Server

BDS

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for Bedrock Edition server software.

Mojira - BDS Issues
Bedrock Dedicated Server - Jira Service Management

Minecraft Marketplace

MCM

Yes

No

Used to track issues for Bedrock Edition add-ons and Marketplace. Only accessible to Marketplace Partners.

Minecraft Marketplace - Jira

Minecraft Console Edition

MCCE

No

No

Was used to track issues for Legacy Console Edition versions.

Minecraft Console Edition - Jira

Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition

MCDS

No

No

Was used to track issues for Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition.

Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition (archived)

Minecraft Dungeons

MCD

No

No

Was used to track issues for Minecraft Dungeons. It got removed along with all of its bug reports after the migration.

Minecraft Dungeons - Jira

Minecraft: Earth

MCE

No

No

Was used to track issues for Minecraft Earth.

Minecraft: Earth - Jira (archived)

Minecraft Legends

MCLG

No

No

Was used to track issues for Minecraft Legends. It got removed along with all of its bug reports after the migration.

Minecraft Legends - Jira

Minecraft Launcher

MCL

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for the Minecraft Launcher.

Mojira - MCL Issues
Minecraft Launcher - Jira Service Management

Minecraft Realms

REALMS

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for Realms.

Mojira - REALMS Issues
Minecraft Realms - Jira Service Management

Mojang Web Experiences & Services

WEB

Yes

Yes

Used to track issues for websites of Mojang Studios.

Mojira - WEB Issues
Mojang Web Experiences & Services - Jira Service Management

Scrolls

SC

No

No

Was used to track issues for Scrolls.

Scrolls - JIRA (archived)

Trash

TRASH

Yes

No

Used as a permanent storage for invalid bug reports that are breaking the bug tracker rules.

Project not found - Jira (unavailable)

Minecraft API

MCAPI

No

No

Was used for Minecraft API suggestions.

Minecraft API - Jira (archived)

Minecraft Pocket Edition Archive

ARCHMCPE

No

No

Was a read-only archive of Pocket Edition feature requests and suggestions that were previously submitted to the main tracker so that people could easily migrate their feature requests/suggestions to the Minecraft Forums. The only issues that were visible to users were the ones that they submitted. Was originally planned to be removed "in a few weeks", although it didn't get removed until at some point between July 8 and October 11, 2014.

Minecraft Pocket Edition Archive - Mojira (archived)

Videos



	Showcase of various bugs and a short explanation of the Bug Tracker (starting at 5:00).

Trivia
Bedrock Edition uses the "MCPE" tag as it is the successor to Pocket Edition and took over its project on the bug tracker at the Better Together Update.
Gallery



			The Java Edition logo used on the bug tracker.



			The first screenshot of the bug tracker.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as of 2025.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as of 2024.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as of 2023.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as it appeared in 2022.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as it appeared in 2020.



			The homepage of the bug tracker as it appeared in 2018.



			The issues page of the Mojang bug tracker as of 2022.



			The issues page of the Mojang bug tracker as of February 2024.



			The issues page of the Mojang bug tracker as of September 2024.



			The page shown while the migration was under preparation.



			The top banner that indicates a problem to list of bugs.


Logos
These logos are unofficial and were created by the bug tracker moderators.



			Logo prior to 2020



			Mockup of the new logo (2020)



			Logo from 2020–2023



			Logo since 2023


References

 "Mojang Bug Tracker Guidelines | Minecraft Help"     by Mojang Studios  – Minecraft.net. "The Mojang Bug Tracker (also known by its nickname Mojira)"

 "Introducing the Minecraft Bug Tracker!"  (archived)   by Erik Broes  – Mojang.com, October 24, 2012.

 "Changes to our bug reporting system"     – Minecraft.net, January 10, 2025.

 "Server end of support"     – Atlassian.

 "Final days to migrate your bug account"     – Minecraft.net, January 31, 2025.

 "[...]The migration consent form is open until this downtime starts and we start with the actual migration.[...]" in #news of Mojira – @violine1101 on Discord, February 7, 2025.

 "Browse Projects - JIRA"  (archived) , July 8, 2014.

 "Browse Projects - JIRA"  (archived) , October 11, 2014.

External links
Official website (Legacy)
Official help guide
Official Mojira Discord
https://mojira.dev – unofficial mirror of the Mojang bug tracker
Navigation