Build With It

Genre

Information

Written by

Nova Barlow

Distributed by

Minecraft.net

First installment

December 6, 2019

Final installment

July 10, 2020

{
    "title": "Build With It",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Information",
            "label": "Genre"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Nova Barlow article, displayed as Nova Barlow)",
            "label": "Written by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net)",
            "label": "Distributed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "December 6, 2019",
            "label": "First installment"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 10, 2020",
            "label": "Final installment"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Build With It is a series of articles on Minecraft.net that showcases buildings and structures that users have created with various blocks in Minecraft.

Articles

Title

Header

Subjects

Published

Build With It: Quartz

Block of Quartz

December 6, 2019

Build With It: Terracotta!

Terracotta

December 13, 2019

Build With It: Acacia!

Acacia Wood

December 20, 2019

Build With It: Diorite!

Diorite

January 3, 2020

Build With It: Cobblestone!

Cobblestone

January 10, 2020

Build With It: Prismarine!

Prismarine

January 17, 2020

Build With It: Gold!

Block of Gold

January 24, 2020

Build With It: Purpur

Purpur

February 7, 2020

Build With It: Stained Glass!

Stained Glass

March 6, 2020

Build With It: Coral!

Coral

March 20, 2020

Build With It: Lapis!

Block of Lapis Lazuli

April 17, 2020

Build With It: Brick!

Bricks

May 8, 2020

Build With It: Emerald!

Block of Emerald

May 29, 2020

Build With It: Diamond!

Block of Diamond

July 10, 2020

Quotes
“Quartz is an unusual block in that you can only use it for decoration. In fact, all the things you can make with quartz are just used for decoration: the chiseled quartz block, two types of quartz stairs, quartz pillars, and smooth quartz.„ — Nova Barlow in Build With It: Quartz
“There are plenty of places to go looking if you’re short on diamonds! You can mine them in caverns, or set your sights on the numerous chests scattered around the world – shipwrecks, minecarts in abandoned mineshafts, strongholds, jungle temples, buried treasure chests, woodland mansions, and more. Even village chests can potentially hold these glittery gems.„ — Nova Barlow in Build With It: Diamond!
“You’ve likely seen stained glass in some of your favorite community builds, but just in case you need even more creative samples, we’ve gathered a few more favorites to demonstrate how versatile this material can be.„ — Nova Barlow in Build With It: Stained Glass!
“If so much orange is a little much for you, then we recommend using it more subtly as an accent on a wall, or perhaps a table inside your home.„ — Nova Barlow in Build With It: Acacia!
“You may not use cobblestone much once you have discovered the wide variety of other building materials Minecraft has to offer, but you should still keep some handy for the day you go back to basics. Why not break some out today? Because it is so abundant, it can help you fill in the gaps where your stockpile of other materials falls short. In the process of mixing and matching, you may just discover a combination of building materials that provides your own signature building style.„ — Nova Barlow in Build With It: Cobblestone!
Navigation