Button






























































Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64); same type only

Tool

Blast resistance

0.5

Hardness

0.5

Luminous

No

Transparent

No

Flammable

          Yes (5)
    No

Catches firefrom lava

          Yes
    JE: NoBE: Yes

Map color

Yes

Note block instrument

Harp

{
    "title": "Button",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64); same type only",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:SlotSprite Axe Required.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=SlotSprite Axe Required.png: Sprite image for Axe Required in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|This block can be broken with any tool, but an axe is the quickest)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.5",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.5",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Harp",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Oak Button",
        "Spruce Button",
        "Birch Button",
        "Jungle Button",
        "Acacia Button",
        "Dark Oak Button",
        "Mangrove Button",
        "Cherry Button",
        "Pale Oak Button",
        "Poplar Button",
        "Bamboo Button",
        "Crimson Button",
        "Warped Button",
        "Stone Button",
        "Polished Blackstone Button"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Oak Button JE5.png",
        "Spruce Button JE5.png",
        "Birch Button JE4.png",
        "Jungle Button JE4.png",
        "Acacia Button JE4.png",
        "Dark Oak Button JE4.png",
        "Mangrove Button JE2.png",
        "Cherry Button JE2.png",
        "Pale Oak Button JE1 BE1.png",
        "Poplar Button JE1.png",
        "Bamboo Button.png",
        "Crimson Button JE2.png",
        "Warped Button JE2.png",
        "Stone Button.png",
        "Polished Blackstone Button.png"
    ]
}

A button is a non-solid block that produces a temporary redstone signal and powers its attached block when pressed by a player or a wind charge. The material a button is made of affects how long it remains pressed and whether it can be pressed by other means.

Contents

1 Variants
2 Obtaining

2.1 Crafting
2.2 Natural generation

3 Usage

3.1 Redstone power

3.1.1 Placement
3.1.2 Behavior

3.2 Breaking

4 Block states
5 Videos
6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition
6.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

7 Issues
8 Trivia
9 Gallery

9.1 Renders

10 References
11 Navigation

Variants
Wooden Button
Oak Button
Spruce Button
Birch Button
Jungle Button
Acacia Button
Dark Oak Button
Mangrove Button
Cherry Button
Pale Oak Button
Poplar Button​[upcoming: Third Drop 2026]
Bamboo Button
Crimson Button
Warped Button
Stone Button
Polished Blackstone Button
Obtaining
Crafting
The crafting recipe is the same for all types and variants of buttons, using a single matching plank, stone, or polished blackstone block to craft the matching button.

Name
Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Wooden Button

Matching Planks

Stone Button or Polished Blackstone Button

Stone or Polished Blackstone

Natural generation
Oak buttons can generate inside trial chambers next to dispensers with random surprises or loots. In Java Edition, stone buttons can generate inside strongholds next to iron doors. Jungle buttons generate naturally on house walls in desert villages. Stone buttons can also generate in desert villages, in armorer houses attached to granite.

Usage
For more specific usage, see the individual button pages.
Redstone power
See also: Redstone circuits

A button can be used as a monostable power source (it automatically deactivates shortly after being activated).
A stone button stays on for 20 ticks (1 second), while a wooden button stays on for 30 ticks (1.5 seconds).

Placement
Buttons can be placed by using it on a surface.
They can be attached to the side, bottom and top of any full opaque block.

Behavior
Buttons are usually in an inactive state, but can be temporarily activated by players. A button can be activated by using it.
While active, a button:

powers any adjacent redstone dust to power level 15, including beneath the button (if the button attaches to a vertical surface, or to the bottom of a block)
powers any adjacent redstone comparators or redstone repeaters facing away from the button to power level 15.
strongly powers its attachment block to power level 15.
powers the block of air that it occupies, which in turn is able to power any adjacent redstone components, seemingly sending its power through the air.
activates any adjacent mechanism components, including above or below, such as pistons, redstone lamps, etc.
When a button changes state it provides a redstone update to all redstone components adjacent to itself (including above and below), and to all redstone components adjacent to its attachment block.

Breaking
A button is removed and drops as an item if:

its attachment block is moved, removed, or destroyed.
water or lava flows into its space.‌[Java Edition  only]
a piston tries to push it or moves a block into its space.
Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  facewallceilingfloorwallThe face of the block it's placed on.Floor is on top of a block, ceiling is on the bottom, and wall is on one of its sides.
facingnortheastnorthsouthwestThe direction it's facing.Opposite to the direction the player is facing if placed on the side of a block.
poweredfalsefalsetrueIf true, the button is currently activated.
Bedrock Edition:

  NameMetadata Bits
  Default value
  Allowed valuesValues forMetadata Bits
  Description
  button_pressed_bit0x8falsefalsetrue01If the button is currently activated.
facing_direction0x10x20x40012345012345The direction it's facing.
0: Button on block bottom facing down
1: Button on block top facing up
2: Button on block side facing north
3: Button on block side facing south
4: Button on block side facing west
5: Button on block side facing east
Videos





History



This article is missing information about: Bedrock Edition info 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

This table only lists changes that affect buttons in general. For more specific history, see the individual button pages.
Java Edition
Java Edition Alphav1.0.1
Added stone buttons.Java Edition1.4.212w34a
Added oak buttons.12w34b
Added a recipe for oak buttons.

The recipe for stone buttons now requires one stone, rather than two.12w37a
The redstone signal duration of the button​[more information needed] has been changed from 18 to 24 game ticks.1.814w04a
Buttons are now able to be placed on the top and bottom of blocks, and can currently only face north.14w10a
The models of buttons have been changed.1.915w46a
Mobs no longer spawn on buttons.1.1317w47a
The names of buttons have been split.

Buttons can no longer be placed on top of pistons.

Buttons can now be placed in all 4 rotations on the top and bottom of a block.

Added birch, spruce, jungle, acacia and dark oak buttons.1.1620w06a
Added crimson and warped buttons.20w15a
Added polished blackstone buttons.1.1922w11a
Added mangrove buttons.22w14a
Added mangrove swamps, which makes mangrove buttons obtainable.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w42a
Added bamboo buttons.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Added cherry buttons.1.21.2ExperimentWinter Drop24w40a
Added pale oak buttons.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.13.0build 1
There are now two types of buttons: stone and wooden.​[more information needed]
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU9CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
There are now two types of buttons: stone and wooden.​[more information needed]TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Buttons are now able to be placed on the top and bottom of blocks.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Added birch, spruce, jungle, acacia and dark oak buttons.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added two types of buttons: stone and wooden.​[more information needed]



			First image of a button on a ceiling.


Issues
Issues relating to "Button" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
During Minecraft Live 2021, a copper button was announced to be implemented along with the copper golem if it won. Although it didn't win, the copper golem was eventually added, but the copper button was not.
Gallery
Renders



			 Oak button



			 Spruce button



			 Birch button



			 Jungle button



			 Acacia button



			 Dark oak button



			 Mangrove button



			 Cherry button



			 Pale oak button



			 Poplar button​[upcoming: Third Drop 2026]



			 Bamboo button



			 Crimson button



			 Warped button



			 Stone button



			 Polished blackstone button


References

 https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/mob-vote-2021-copper-golem

Navigation