This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Fantastic Fairgrounds

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Tags

Artificial Intelligence
Fun
Free
Back to School
Bees
Art
Science
Amusement Park

Genre(s)

Educational

Website page

Fantastic Fairgrounds
Fantastic Fairgrounds in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Fantastic Fairgrounds",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Artificial Intelligence\n*Fun\n*Free\n*Back to School\n*Bees\n*Art\n*Science\n*Amusement Park",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "Educational",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/fantastic-fairgrounds Fantastic Fairgrounds]\n*[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp/minecraft/fantastic-fairgrounds/d24d84a8-cf87-4919-a478-46b2d41a5126 Fantastic Fairgrounds in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Fantastic Fairgrounds is a lesson in Minecraft Education and a free Marketplace map in Bedrock Edition. Set in a city fair, the map introduces players to AI literacy while guiding them to organize the fair.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Intro
1.2 Botanical Futures Display
1.3 Spectacle of Lights Show
1.4 Art Gallery
1.5 Ending

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Renders

6 Navigation

Summary
Intro
The player begins the map in complete darkness. The AI assistant present as an agent introduces them to the map and offers playing tool choices among keyboard, touch, or controller. The map brightens to reveal that it takes place in the parking lot of a fair inside a large city, where all cars are made of gray concrete. The player undergoes the "look" tutorial, then a navigation tutorial among a maze of cars toward the main gate. There, the player meets the Park Director Leslie, who is busy talking to herself: While the fair is about to open, there are multiple issues in the attractions: the bees are missing, the lights for the light show are malfunctioning, and the art piece has to be changed. Seeing the player's intelligence, she recruits them as a "fair saver", showing them the three attractions that need their help. Before she lets them in, Leslie shows them their AI assistant, who demonstrates them its usage by telling them to press the button in front of the game. Once pressed, the assistant requires getting "local network and authentication", which Leslie grants. This opens the door, leading to a grassy fair with a globe-shaped centerpiece and a supported stone brick ring surrounding the fair. There, the player can visit any of the three attractions.

Botanical Futures Display
To the left is the Botanical Futures Display, the attraction dedicated to gardens and bees owned by beekeeper Sashi, who worked here ever since he was inspired by Gregor Mendel's work as a kid. His issue, however, is that his bees escaped and he relied on robot bees to no avail unless they were trained with physical ones. Worsening his issue is the fair's imminent opening and that he needs to analyze nectar with the AI assistant. To help Sashi, the player must find three groups of bees around the fair to detect polluants repelling them by analyzing the pollen. They can search for flying silhouettes, with a chance to reveal to be a group of three bees, which the AI assistant analyzes and uses for training. The rest of the chances can be either a bat or a parrot, which fails the analysis. If all bees have been found, the AI assistant says that if all polluants have been removed, the bees will return, and tells the player to come back to the display.
Even though the bees are found, Sashi laments that they all went missing except the queen bee, which the rest of the bees follow. He gives the player a brood comb which they will use to lure the queen to the botanical garden and ultimately lure the bees to their hives. The AI assistant begins the luring initiative, which trains it to track bee movement and health states to help the player in their work. To lure the queen bee, the player must find her then place the brood comb into glass containers to get her closer to the botanical garden. This creates an area bordered by a green or yellow wall of light indicating the luring range.
Once the queen bee has been lured, Sashi still needs real bees to instruct the robot bees, telling the player to talk to botanist Amit for help. When he meets the player, Amit asks if they know George Washington Carver, Carl Linnaeus, or Agnes Arber, praising them in the process as botany heroes. To help them in clearing the polluants repelling the bees, he points to the Eco-friendly Custodial Sweeper (shortened as Eco-Sweep). He tells them to collect sanitizing solution bottles, then use specific options indicated by the AI assistant depending on the type of polluant to sweep. The player then begins the task where they have to sweep three polluants around the fair. Interacting with speed-up arrows will start a speed effect for the Eco-Sweep lasting 10 seconds.
Upon finishing the task, bees and robot bees start spreading flowers. Amit and Sashi thank the player for their work, and Leslie gets relieved when she realizes the AI used is "safe and reliable" as the robot bees did not disrupt the guests. The AI assistant then explains the player reliability and safety.

Spectacle of Lights Show
At the light show attraction, which is mainly built out of white stained glass, various stone brick blocks, and iron trapdoors, the technician Annika notices that the lights are out of sync. Feeling overwhelmed, she asks for the help of the player and their assistant. She points to a wall of chips which mostly malfunction for the terminals due to the color fading of the main terminal. To help her choose the right chips for each terminal, she points at the player's AI assistant which will help them find the chips. At the wall of chips, the player can find a row of each of the six chip variants, and the AI assistant concludes that it detected three matching patterns for three terminals. To reveal the needed chips for the other three, the assistant has to analyze them, which can thus help it determine the chips on the main terminal. The player can find the three terminals outside to analyze and reveal the requisite chips. The box below each terminal has three chip slots: one red slot with a card and two empty green and blue ones. Back into the building, the player has to return to the wall of chips to collect the six missing chips and insert them into the terminal slots. This trains the AI assistant in gathering data. Back in the building upon completing the task, Annika gives the player yellow, orange, and pink chips to insert in the main terminal next to the wall of chips. Once inserted, she and Leslie admire the light show fixed by the player, before the AI assistant explains transparency.

Art Gallery
In the Art Gallery, the player can meet its curator, Nitro, who plans on his "latest creative brainstorm" in the domain of art. He calls out the player to use their AI assistant to help by photographing some visitors around the park. Noticing privacy issues, Leslie intervenes and advices to ask for consent first to avoid copyright and intellectual property issues. The player can ask for the permission of eight people, but only Kim, Roni, Nasim, Eugene, and Mpho give permission, whose pictures add to the hotbar once taken. Mel shows no interest in having a photo, Jonas the influencer wants to secure his brand, and Pamela is heavily against AI-generated art. Upon completing the task, Nitro explains why permission must be asked for, and offers the player to use the pictures in generating any of three types of artwork: two paintings and a statue. After interacting with the computer, the artwork gets generated, and Nitro and Leslie admire the player's work and explain the importance of asking for consent. Afterward, the AI assistant explains the player privacy and security.

Ending
As a token of appreciation for their work in the attractions, Leslie offers the player to ride the hover car beneath the globe centerpiece. This takes the player on an aerial view of the fair.

Quotes
“Discover how to unlock the power of AI with the wondrous world of Fantastic Fairgrounds! Explore AI's impact on everything from blocky beekeeping to the energy of laser lightshows and celebrated creativity in the artists' pavilion. You'll practice the skills to understand, evaluate, and utilize this exciting technology. Shape the future with AI Literacy!„ — Marketplace description
Videos





Trivia
The hover car is incorrectly referred to as a minecart.
Gallery
Renders



			Bee Queen


Navigation