This  topic  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

Farm Monsters

Species

Infernal Cow
Chicken
Mummy Sheep
Skeleton Pig
Wolfman








Residence

Farm





First appearance

Halloween Edition Mash-up Pack

Latest appearance

The Well Wisher (episode)

{
    "title": "Farm Monsters",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(values exceeds 1000 characters...)",
            "label": "Species"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Farm (Mini-Series) article, displayed as Farm)",
            "label": "Residence"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Halloween Mash-up article, displayed as Halloween Edition Mash-up Pack)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to The Well Wisher (episode) article, displayed as The Well Wisher (episode))''",
            "label": "Latest appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MCMS Farm Monsters.png"
    ]
}

The farm monsters are hostile variants of cows, chickens, sheep, pigs, and wolves in Minecraft Mini-Series.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 Navigation

Appearance
The infernal cow is a red variant of the regular cow with bigger horns and an angry face. The mummy sheep is a undead variant of the sheep that is wrapped in bandages. The skeleton pig is a undead variant of the pig that has its bones appearing. The hostile chicken has the same appearance as the regular passive chicken. The wolfman has blue fur, fangs, red eyes, and ripped brown clothing. It is never shown as a passive mob as it's passive variant resembles a human in the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.

Trivia
A hostile variant of the wolves was later added in Minecraft Earth, the skeleton wolf.
A hostile variant of the chicken was later added in Minecraft Dungeons, being the mount of the chicken jockey.
In the April fools update 2.0 there was a feature which made chickens neutral. This meant they would attack you if you hit them.
All the farm monsters are based on minifigures made by Mattel which in turn were based on the animals in the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.
The hostile chicken does have a Halloween themed skin resembling a gray rat in the mash up pack, but it wasn't ever added to the series or made into a minifigure.
Gallery



			The farm monsters attacking the characters.



			The wolfman attacking.



			The farm monsters ready to attack.



			Infernal cow minifigure.



			Skeleton pig minifigure.



			Mummy sheep minifigure.



			Wolfman minifigure.



			The werewolf from the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.



			The angry werewolf skin from the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.



			The infernal cow from the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.



			The mummy sheep from the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.



			The skeleton pig from the Halloween Edition mash-up pack.


Navigation