For the command in Bedrock Edition, see Commands/fog.

The dense, brown water fog in a swamp
Fog is a rendering feature intended for obscuring the player's view distance, usually for colored atmospherics or for seamlessly occluding sharp boundaries such as unloaded chunks. While traditionally referring to render distance, there are many other types of fog that can be encountered in-game under specific circumstances.

Contents

1 Fog types

1.1 Render distance fog

1.1.1 Atmospherics

1.2 Environmental fog

1.2.1 Rain fog

1.3 Special fog

1.3.1 Water fog
1.3.2 Lava fog
1.3.3 Powder snow fog
1.3.4 Nether fog

1.4 Volumetric fog

1.4.1 Vanilla volumetric fog settings

2 Fog modifiers

2.1 Blindness and Darkness
2.2 Night Vision
2.3 Ender dragon
2.4 Height
2.5 Wither

3 Objects unaffected by fog
4 Custom fogs

4.1 Vanilla fog settings

5 Void fog
6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition

7 Issues
8 Gallery

8.1 Screenshots

8.1.1 Water fog colors in Bedrock Edition
8.1.2 Night Vision fog

9 References
10 Notes
11 Navigation

Fog types
Render distance fog
Default air fog is what causes the brighter sky color at the horizon, and slight fading at the edge of the render distance.
This refers to fog that is dependent of the render distance, which includes air fog in the Overworld and the End in Bedrock Edition, or general fog in all dimensions in Java Edition.
The sight distance in the render distance fog is equal to the render distance, which begins to appear at 92% of the render distance. Objects from the sky are not faded, making it appear in the shape of a cylinder. Its color depends mainly on the biome the camera is in, and is affected by:

the current day-time in the Overworld:
At midnight, fog is always dark blue regardless of other colors.
During sunrise and after sunset, the biome fog color gets gradually mixed with the black.
When looking in the direction of the sun during sunrise or sunset, the fog gradually turns orange.
the current sky color, and the render distance‌[Java Edition  only]
The smaller the render distance, the closer the color of the fog is adjusted to the sky color.
When the render distance is 32, the color of the fog is not affected by the sky color.
the current weather
The base fog color in the Overworld is  #c0d8ff in Java Edition and  #abd2ff in Bedrock Edition. In pale gardens, the fog color is  #817770. In the End, the fog color is  #a080a0 in Java Edition and  #0b080c in Bedrock Edition. Sulfur caves use  #8cb831.Weather fog is colored gray and obstructs a larger part of the view distance.
In Bedrock Edition, a separate type of render distance fog is used during precipitation, known as weather fog. This fog is much denser; it appears at 23% of the render distance and becomes opaque at 70% of the render distance. The base color changes to  #666666,  #403C44 in pale gardens, stays  #8cb831 in sulfur caves.

Distance fog with Vibrant Visuals takes on the color of the dynamic atmospherics.
Atmospherics
Main article: Vibrant Visuals § Atmospherics


This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

With Vibrant Visuals, the Overworld sky box does not exist and render distance fog entirely replaces its purpose for dynamic atmospherics. Atmospherics have different colors for a zenith and horizon region, which are being illuminated by rayleigh scattering.
The atmospherics constantly change color as the daylight cycle progresses. In general, zenith is blue at daytime and dark blue at nighttime with less rayleigh scattering illuminating it. The horizon has unique shades of purple, pink, blue, orange, brown, and light gray for each part of the daylight cycle, and it is positioned lower at nighttime. Around sunrise and sunset, an additional mie scattering shades the area around the sun with a mix of fog colors and sunlight colors.
Several biomes (as well as the End) have unique atmospherics, including some unique zenith and horizon colors at daytime, brighter night sky colors in warmish biomes, and some use entirely unique colors. Because many biomes also have unique lighting and color grading settings, there are more variations of the final scene. See Vibrant Visuals/Configurations § Atmospherics for all details.
During precipitation, the denser weather fog takes on the same colors as the sky box without Vibrant Visuals, while mie scattering is still applied around the sun. Unlike the classic sky, this is not applied in dry biomes or with a wither.

During rainfall or snowfall at day:  rgb(103, 103, 103) for 100%
During thunderstorms at day:  rgb(51, 51, 51) blended for 75% with rainfall colors.
When lightning strikes, the sky flashes multiple times:  rgb(204, 204, 255) blended for 45% with all previous colors. This can be disabled with the "Hide Sky Flashes" setting.













Like classic distance fog, it also fades objects near the edge of the render distance with the atmospheric colors. Objects faded by fog are also reflected with the fog.
Environmental fog
Environmental fog shown through the zoom of a spyglass.



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

This refers to fog that renders ambiently inside chunks in the Overworld[verify] that are far away from the player. This type of fog grows in strength at greater distances from the player and does not change with render distance.
Rain fog
Environmental fog grows in strength during precipitation. Rain-based fog becomes weaker when the player is not exposed to as much sky light (sky light is always the same regardless of the weather or daylight cycle). This creates the effect of the fog getting weaker when the player is not in the rain.

Special fog
This refers to fog used in special cases, which does not change with render distance.[verify]

Water fog
Water fog in a river, after 5 seconds.
When the camera is in water, a dedicated fog is applied to simulate this. Underwater fog progressively recedes with time spent underwater. The color and distance‌[BE  only] depends on the biome the camera is in (see Water § Appearance for a full list). In Java Edition, swamps and mangrove swamps have a thicker fog than most other biomes, which is controlled by the biome tag has_closer_water_fog.
When the camera descends into water, a much thicker initial fog is applied first, with the same color but obscuring the distance at 0.01 blocks, which is blended for 25% with regular fog at the start. The transition fog slowly disappears, being blended for 60% at 5 seconds and removed at 30 seconds.
Vibrant Visuals modifies underwater fog by brightening it more at the top and bottom of the sphere, while it appears almost black in horizontal directions. It is illuminated by directional lighting, and looking at a lit area when the camera is in the dark dynamically brightens it where light falls down.

Lava fog
Lava fog is so dense that it even fades held items on the HUD.
When the camera is in lava, an even thicker fog is applied. Its color is  #991A00. With this fog, normally the player can see only 1 block away. The Fire Resistance effect can mitigate the fog so that the sight distance becomes 3 blocks. In Spectator mode, the fog is even less opaque to reveal objects located within up to half the render distance.

Powder snow fog
Being beneath powder snow imparts another fog. Its color is  #9FBBC8. With this fog, normally the player can see only 2 blocks away. In Spectator mode, the fog becomes thinner so that things within half of the render distance are visible.
Powder snow fog is illuminated by directional lighting with Vibrant Visuals.

Nether fog
Sky and weather fog in Nether biomes has a specified range of blocks and does not change with the render distance, like other types of sky and weather fog. It begins to appear at 10 blocks and becomes opaque at 96 blocks. The color depends on the biome, which is  #330808 in Nether wastes,  #1a051a in warped forests,  #330303 in crimson forests,  #1b4745 in soul sand valleys, and  #685f70 in basalt deltas.
With Vibrant Visuals, this fog uses the tint from the biome's atmospherics as well, although it simulates the same colors by illuminating them with rayleigh scattering.
In Java Edition, the shorter fog distance is created by the dimension effect and does not apply in Nether biomes in other dimensions, while in Bedrock Edition it is only controlled by the biome.

Volumetric fog



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

A comparison of volumetric fog off vs on in a pale garden.
With Vibrant Visuals and ray tracing, an additional dynamic fog is applied on top of regular fog settings. Volumetric fog has strong effect on how light behaves, which can be faded out, make the fog glow, or scatter into light shafts. It is applied in the air, with varying densities depending on the biome, and underwater, colored bright blue. At Y=320 and higher, volumetric fog is not rendered.
Volumetric fog uses the color from the regular fog, which uses the color and illumination from atmospherics and lighting. Depending on the biome, it further scatters in unique colors, or can absorb some light.
With Vibrant Visuals, fog in water and air can affect how light shafts behave with the Henyey-Greenstein G phase function. The strength varies from biome to biome.
Color grading makes all types of fog appear in different colors for each biome. The fog is barely visible at night, strong and orange/red at sunrise and sunset, brighter yellow when the sun is higher, and less strong at noon.



			The red volumetric fog at sunrise with Vibrant Visuals.



			Red fog at sunrise with ray tracing.



			Strong light shafts in a pale garden with ray tracing.



			Volumetric fog applied underwater with Vibrant Visuals.



			Underwater volumetric fog with ray tracing.


Vanilla volumetric fog settings
Default:
Density: 0
Scattering: 0 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.75.
Biomes: All others
Semi-humid:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.04 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.6
Biomes: Beach, Snowy Taiga, Snowy Taiga Hills, Snowy Taiga Mountains, Deep Lukewarm Ocean, Deep Warm Ocean, Windswept Forest, Gravelly Mountains+, Lukewarm Ocean, Old Growth Pine Taiga, Giant Tree Taiga Hills, Old Growth Spruce Taiga, Giant Spruce Taiga Hills, Taiga, Taiga Hills, Taiga Mountains, Warm Ocean
Humid:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.06 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.4
Biomes: Bamboo Jungle, Bamboo Jungle Hills, Sparse Jungle, Modified Jungle Edge, Jungle, Jungle Hills, Modified Jungle, Lush Caves, Mangrove Swamp
Ice Spikes:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.02 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.3
Mushroom Fields and Mushroom Field Shore:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.01 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0.042, 0.137, 0.012
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.3
Pale Garden and Sulfur Caves:
Density: 0.07
Scattering: 0.5 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0.25, 0.125, 0.125
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.3
Dark Forest and Dark Forest Hills:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.04 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.75
Swamp and Swamp Hills:
Density: 0.05
Scattering: 0.06 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0.2549019753932953, 0.12995001673698426, 0.18875093758106233
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.4
The End
Density: 0.25
Scattering: 0.02 for all RGB channels
Absorption: 0 for all RGB channels
Henyey-Greenstein G: 0.8






			Default volumetric fog creates a glow around the sun and slight light shafts.



			Semi-humid volumetric fog fades blocks in the distance with an orange color.



			Humid volumetric fog creates a warm atmosphere.



			In ice spikes, barely any light shafts appear and the fog tints the environment more gray.



			Mushroom fields fog is purple, more noticeable at the glow around the sun and at zenith.



			Fog in pale gardens is very dense and decreases view distance, but allows light shafts to pass.



			Sulfur caves volumetric fog is similar to the pale garden fog, but appears differently due to the biome's sunlight settings.



			Fog in dark forests creates a glow around the sun and more light shafts, while coloring the rest of the sky dull blue.



			Fog in swamps fades many objects in the distance with dark green.



			The End volumetric fog is only visible during an End flash, and creates many light shafts and purple fading.








			Default volumetric fog creates a glow around the sun and slight light shafts.



			Semi-humid volumetric fog fades blocks in the distance and creates bright light shafts.



			Humid volumetric fog is stronger than semi-humid fog and tinted warmer.



			In ice spikes, barely any light shafts appear and the fog tints the environment more gray.



			Mushroom fields fog is purple, more noticeable at the glow around the sun and at zenith.



			Fog in pale gardens is very dense and decreases view distance, but allows light shafts to pass.



			Fog in dark forests creates a glow around the sun and more light shafts, while coloring the rest of the sky dull blue.



			Fog in swamps fades many objects in the distance with dark green.



Fog modifiers
Blindness and Darkness
Blindness fog
Blindness and Darkness set the fog color to pure black, also hiding the sky and its objects. Except for the Overworld air fog, it uses the regular colors with Vibrant Visuals. The sight distance with Blindness is 5 blocks, while the sight distance with Darkness is 15 blocks. Both Blindness- and Darkness-caused fog fade out when the effect ends, while Darkness fog also fades in.
Blindness has a higher priority than Darkness. The two effects do not work if the camera is in lava or powder snow.

Night Vision
Night fog with Night Vision
If the entity has no Darkness or Blindness effect, Night Vision makes the color of air fog, weather fog, lava fog, and powder snow fog brighter outside Vibrant Visuals, except the regular air fog at day in the Overworld.

Ender dragon
The shorter ender dragon fog
If the player is in a dimension where there's an ender dragon boss event, the sight distance in the render distance fog (not water, lava, powder snow fog) is half of the rendering distance, and the maximum sight distance is 96 blocks, similar to Nether fog.

Height



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

If the world is not a superflat world, and the camera is not in lava and not in powder snow, the brightness becomes power(clamp((y-minY)*0.03125,0.0,1.0)) of the original, which means that the color changes to pure black gradually from minY+32 to minY.
In Bedrock Edition, it is instead the sky color which gets darker.

Wither



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

If there is a wither boss event, the color becomes darker and slightly redder.

Objects unaffected by fog
Most things in the world are affected by fog. There are exceptions, most to all of which are presumably unintended:

Clouds, stars, the sun, moon, End sky, and End flash are not affected by air and weather fog.
Clouds are faded by themselves (except on Simple graphics), which depends on the cloud range setting or render distance.
The End sky is also not faded by water and lava fog. It is slightly transparent in Bedrock Edition, making fog visible through the texture.
In Bedrock Edition 26.40,​[upcoming] these are also not affected by water fog in Vibrant Visuals.
The classic sky box is also not affected by air and weather fog but it is gradually faded until 7° above the horizon where it gets fully transparent.
Lightning
The world border‌[JE  only]
Render distance fog is not used for the world border. It uses its own draw distance algorithm, which introduces inconsistencies. It being unaffected by fog is mainly visible via water, lava, powder fog, blindness and darkness fog.
Chunk border lines‌[JE  only][verify]
The core shader used for rendering these differs only from the normal shader used for translucent blocks in that it ignores fog. It is unknown if this was done intentionally, or is an oversight.
Charged creeper armor
Wither anti-projectile armor
Water with Vibrant Visuals. The tint from underwater fog and reflections are faded at the edge of the render distance, but the MERS texture not.
Objects underwater with Vibrant Visuals are not faded by lava fog.
Entity shadows on Fancy graphics‌[BE  only]
Banner flags[verify for Java Edition]
In addition, the beams emitted by beacons and end gateways use an outdated planar fog boundary, rather than the modern cylinder shape. The intended behavior may be for beacon beams to be unaffected by fog, at least of certain types and in some directions.
When these objects are in conjunction with objects that are faded by fog (like blocks) fully take on the fog's color while the other objects, like the sky, do not, making them easily distinguishable.

Custom fogs
 For the fog settings in resource packs, see Fog definition.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

The currently active fog settings can be changed with the /fog command, which has settings for every biome. These fog settings can be customized using resource packs, or new fog settings can be added. When applying a fog setting to a biome, the identifier needs to be specified in the client biome JSON files.
Active fog settings are determined from three aspects:

Custom fog stack (from /fog command)
Fog settings for the current biome
Default fog setting
Whenever the game needs to get the current fog, it checks the fog settings from these three aspects from the top (the newest fog setting in the fog stack from the command) to the bottom (default fog setting) in order, until it finds a fog definition for the current fog type.
In other words, this is equivalent to that all fog settings from the three aspects are applied one by one from the bottom (default fog setting) to the top (the newest fog setting in the fog stack from the command) in order. The fogs in a fog setting applied later overrides that of earlier fog settings. Each fog type works independently.

Vanilla fog settings
minecraft:fog_bamboo_jungle
minecraft:fog_bamboo_jungle_hills
minecraft:fog_basalt_deltas
minecraft:fog_beach
minecraft:fog_birch_forest
minecraft:fog_birch_forest_hills
minecraft:fog_cherry_grove
minecraft:fog_cold_beach
minecraft:fog_cold_ocean
minecraft:fog_cold_taiga
minecraft:fog_cold_taiga_hills
minecraft:fog_cold_taiga_mutated
minecraft:fog_crimson_forest
minecraft:fog_dappled_forest​[upcoming: Third Drop 2026]
minecraft:fog_deep_cold_ocean
minecraft:fog_deep_frozen_ocean
minecraft:fog_deep_lukewarm_ocean
minecraft:fog_deep_ocean
minecraft:fog_deep_warm_ocean
minecraft:fog_default (used by old growth birch forest, tall birch hills, deep dark, dripstone caves, grove, meadow, shattered savanna plateau, snowy slopes, and stony peaks)
minecraft:fog_desert
minecraft:fog_desert_hills
minecraft:fog_dry (used by desert lakes, frozen peaks, jagged peaks, legacy frozen ocean, modified badlands plateau, and modified wooded badlands plateau)
minecraft:fog_extreme_hills
minecraft:fog_extreme_hills_edge
minecraft:fog_extreme_hills_mutated
minecraft:fog_extreme_hills_plus_trees
minecraft:fog_extreme_hills_plus_trees_mutated
minecraft:fog_flower_forest
minecraft:fog_forest
minecraft:fog_forest_hills
minecraft:fog_frozen_ocean
minecraft:fog_frozen_river
minecraft:fog_hell
minecraft:fog_humid (used by modified jungle edge)
minecraft:fog_ice_mountains
minecraft:fog_ice_plains
minecraft:fog_ice_plains_spikes
minecraft:fog_jungle
minecraft:fog_jungle_edge
minecraft:fog_jungle_hills
minecraft:fog_jungle_mutated
minecraft:fog_lukewarm_ocean
minecraft:fog_mangrove_swamp
minecraft:fog_mega_spruce_taiga
minecraft:fog_mega_spruce_taiga_mutated
minecraft:fog_mega_taiga
minecraft:fog_mega_taiga_hills
minecraft:fog_mega_taiga_mutated (unused)
minecraft:fog_mesa
minecraft:fog_mesa_bryce
minecraft:fog_mesa_mutated (unused)
minecraft:fog_mesa_plateau
minecraft:fog_mesa_plateau_stone
minecraft:fog_mushroom_island
minecraft:fog_mushroom_island_shore
minecraft:fog_ocean
minecraft:fog_pale_garden
minecraft:fog_plains
minecraft:fog_powder_snow
minecraft:fog_river
minecraft:fog_roofed_forest
minecraft:fog_roofed_forest_mutated
minecraft:fog_savanna
minecraft:fog_savanna_mutated
minecraft:fog_savanna_plateau
minecraft:fog_semi_humid (used by giant spruce taiga hills and old growth spruce taiga)
minecraft:fog_soulsand_valley
minecraft:fog_stone_beach
minecraft:fog_sulfur_caves
minecraft:fog_sunflower_plains
minecraft:fog_swampland
minecraft:fog_swampland_mutated
minecraft:fog_taiga
minecraft:fog_taiga_hills
minecraft:fog_taiga_mutated
minecraft:fog_the_end
minecraft:fog_warm_ocean
minecraft:fog_warped_forest
Void fog



This section describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

In prior versions of Java Edition (specifically Beta 1.8 Pre-release through 14w34b inclusive, up to its removal in 14w34c), a thick black fog was introduced. As the player descended below Y=26, this fog would start to appear. As the player traveled deeper, the fog at the edge of the render distance would become closer until the player reached the first layers of bedrock, where visibility was reduced to just a few blocks, beyond which was complete darkness similar to the Blindness effect. The gray void particles started appearing below Y=7, as well as in the void.
The existence of this fog depended on a lack of sky lighting. If vent holes were opened up to allow skylight to enter an otherwise secluded underground space, void fog would no longer be present, so long as the player kept near this skylight source.
Void fog was removed late into 1.8's development for performance reasons and general community distaste.



			A player's view limit would decrease with depth.


History
Java Edition
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
Shadowed surfaces have a thick black fog applied to them.rd-20090515
Added a subtle white distance fog. It only appears for lit surfaces.

Decreased density of fog in shadowed areas.Java Edition Classic0.0.12a
Distance fog is now the same color as the sky.

Added water and lava fog.

Lava fog in this version is similar to water fog, except orange in color.0.0.13a
Lava fog is now redder and appears much closer to the player.0.0.14a
Distance fog is affected by render distance, and is now linear instead of exponential.0.0.14a_08
Shadowed surfaces no longer have a dark fog applied to them.

Distance fog is now white again, and is also applied to shadowed surfaces.Java Edition Indev0.3120100107-1851
Level themes have been added, which feature different fog colors.

The fog color in Hell-themed worlds is  #100400.20100122
The color of fog, clouds and the sky can now be configured via map editing.20100214
The fog color in Paradise-themed worlds is  #C6DEFF by default.

The fog color in Woods-themed worlds is  #4D5A5B by default.Java Edition Infdev20100227-1414
With the deprecation of Indev worlds, fog color is no longer customizable.20100313
Fog color has been changed to  #B0D0FF.20100618
Fog color has been changed to  #C0D8FF.Java Edition Alphav1.2.0
The fog color in the Nether is  #330808.Java Edition Beta1.8Pre-release
Overworld fog now changes color during sunrise and sunset when looking toward the sun.

Added void fog.Pre-release 2 ;)
Many of void fog's effects can be circumvented by having sky access.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
Added blindness fog.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
The fog color in the End is  #131318.1.111w48a
Players in creative mode can no longer see void fog.1.2.112w03a
Added nether fog.1.3.112w25a
The fog color in the End has been changed to  #181318.1.7.213w36a
The distance where fog starts has been doubled.13w38a
Re-adjusted fog to appear near the render distance limit again, reverting changes made in 13w36a.

Fog now covers 25% of the render distance, compared to 75% before 13w36a.1.814w34c
Removed void fog and its associated particles.1.1318w08b
Water now appears fully fogged when entered, and gradually becomes clearer over time.

The Respiration enchantment and Water Breathing effect no longer have an effect on water fog.18w10a
Water fog now varies per biome.

Water fog no longer takes time to clear in Spectator mode.1.1620w06a
Fog color is now based on the current biome, rather than the dimension.

The End biomes are coded with a fog color of  #A080A0.

The End dimension darkens every biome's fog color by 85%.20w09a
Fog color no longer changes abruptly when switching biomes.Pre-release 3
The Fire Resistance effect now makes under-lava fog slightly less harsh.1.16.220w28a
Fog color is now something that can be changed by custom biomes.Pre-release 1
Added dimension effects, allowing for nether fog to be applied to any custom dimension.1.1720w46a
Added powder snow, which has its own dedicated fog effect.20w48a
How submerged the player has to be in lava to see the fog effect has now changed.21w10a
Render distance fog is now spherical, and no longer changes based on the view angle.21w11a
Underwater fog is now far less intense when in Spectator mode.[verify] However, it is still present.

Lava fog is now far less intense when in Spectator mode. However, it is still present.

Powder snow fog is now far less intense when in Spectator mode. However, it is still present.1.18.1Pre-release 1
World fog now starts further away from the player, to make distant terrain more visible.

Instead of applying fog as a spherical volume, it is now applied as a cylindrical volume, making it easier to see into the distance when standing on tall mountains.1.21.525w07a
End portals and end gateways are now affected by fog in the manner that all other blocks are.1.21.625w19a
Added environmental fog.25w20a
Fog is now applied to 3d HUD elements such as first person player hands and items in hands.
Slightly reduced rain and thunder weather fog.
Rain and thunder fog is now significantly reduced when the player is under blocks.1.21.1125w44a
Nether fog no longer becomes thicker when playing at lower render distances. Its thickness now always matches how it previously looked at 32 render distance.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.1.0
Added distance, water, and lava fog.

All fog types are a flat plane based on the camera angle. Render distance fog starts at 50% of the render distance and becomes fully opaque at the render distance limit. Water and lava fog both start at the camera and become fully opaque at 32 blocks and 3 blocks, respectively.v0.5.0
Render distance fog now covers 10% of the render distance.v0.6.0
Render distance fog now covers 40% of the render distance and is now blue instead of gray.v0.8.0build 1
Render distance fog now covers 30% of the render distance.

Due to changes made to chunk rendering in this version, fog is now visible only on chunks that are far enough away from the player. This can cause sharp borders between areas with and without render distance fog, especially on lower render distance settings. This also means that water and lava fog are no longer visible since this version made it so that far chunks do not render while water or lava fog is active.build 4
Water and lava fog are once again visible in rendered chunks.v0.9.0build 1
Render distance fog now covers 100[x−(x/2+8)]/x% of the render distance, with x being the player's render distance in blocks.

This version also added a minimum start distance of 72 blocks to render distance fog, resulting in glitchy behavior if the player sets their render distance to 4 chunks.
In particular, setting the render distance to 4 chunks would cause water to become colored with the fog color, making it indistinguishable from the fog, and cause mobs to lose their textures and become colored with the fog color as well.build 2
The glitchy low render distance fog behavior in the previous build was fixed by adding a minimum distance of 4 blocks between the render distance limit and the start of the fog area, preventing render distance values lower than the minimum available through the settings from being used.v0.10.0build 1
Render distance fog now covers 100[x−(x/3.2+30)]/x% of the render distance, with x being the player's render distance in blocks.

Render distance fog now becomes fully opaque at 20% of the distance between the player and the render distance limit.

The 72 block minimum start distance for render distance fog has been removed.

Water fog now becomes fully opaque 8 blocks away from the camera.

Lava fog now becomes fully opaque 1 block away from the camera.

Sky coloring is now visible through water and lava fog if the "Beautiful skies" toggle is enabled.build 2
All fog is now spherical and no longer changes based on the camera angle when fancy graphics is on.

Render distance fog now covers 100[x−(x/2+32)]/x% of the render distance, with x being the player's render distance in blocks.

Render distance fog once again becomes fully opaque at the render distance limit.v0.12.1build 1
Added weather fog.v0.14.2
Render distance fog now covers 100[x−(x/2+12)]/x% of the render distance, with x being the player's render distance in blocks.

Render distance fog now becomes fully opaque 16 blocks under the render distance limit.Bedrock Edition1.16.0beta 1.16.0.51
Added lava resistance fog.1.16.200ExperimentCaves and Cliffsbeta 1.16.200.52
Added powder snow fog.1.21.80ExperimentVibrant VisualsPreview 1.21.80.25
Added volumetric fog in Vibrant Visuals, with new Henyey-Greenstein G light shafts.
Distance fog is now colored by atmospherics with Vibrant Visuals.1.21.90Preview 1.21.90.26
Added biome configurations for volumetric with Vibrant Visuals, also applied with ray tracing.
Added biome configurations for atmospherics with Vibrant Visuals.26.30Preview 26.30.20
Added ender dragon fog.Preview 26.30.27
Added unique air, water, and volumetric fog to sulfur caves.26.40Preview 26.40.22
Clouds, stars, the sun, and the moon are no longer affected by water fog in Vibrant Visuals, making them visible through Snell's window.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00patch 11.0.1
Added Bedrock fog.TU6
Added a toggle to turn Void fog on and off. Fog is disabled by default. Void fog is dependent on the game hosts's settings.
Issues
Issues relating to "Fog" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Screenshots



			Fog during sunset, when the camera is looking near the sun



			Fog during sunset, when the camera is looking sideways from the sun



			Fog at nighttime



			Dynamic underwater fog with Vibrant Visuals in an aquifer



			Underwater fog with Vibrant Visuals when no directional light source is visible, which appears black and cyan.



			Air fog in the End fades outer End islands with a dark color, and colors the sky black in Bedrock Edition.



			Air fog in Nether wastes



			Air fog in basalt deltas



			Air fog in a crimson forest



			Air fog in a soul sand valley



			Air fog in a warped forest



			Air fog in a pale garden



			Weather fog in a pale garden is darker gray than regular weather fog.



			Air fog in sulfur caves



			Lava fog with Fire Resistance



			Powder snow fog



			Powder snow fog with Vibrant Visuals appears brighter due to directional lighting and color grading.



			Water transition fog after 1 second



			Water transition fog after 5 seconds



			Water transition fog after 30 seconds



			Blindness or Darkness underwater with Vibrant Visuals



			An End single biome world in the Overworld uses a unique purple fog color in Java Edition.



			The void, covered in void fog before Java Edition 1.8


Water fog colors in Bedrock Edition
Note: Not all biomes with unique fog colors are shown here.


			Swamp



			Mangrove Swamp



			Snowy Plains



			Pale Garden



			Old Growth Pine Taiga



			The End



			The Nether (except basalt deltas)



			Basalt Deltas



			Mushroom Fields



			Cherry Grove



			Deep Frozen Ocean



			Badlands



			Jungle



			Desert



			Flower Forest



			Sulfur Caves



			Dappled Forest



			Old Growth Birch Forest (default)


Night Vision fog



			Sunset fog



			Sunset fog more near the night



			Weather fog



			Pale garden air fog



			Pale garden weather fog



			Powder snow fog



			Lava fog



			Nether wastes



			Crimson forest



			Warped forest



			Soul sand valley



			Basalt deltas



			The End‌[Bedrock Edition  only]


References

 MC-223566

 MC-279571

 MC-220523, MC-221254

 MC-279051

 MC-279052

 MC-279049, MC-279050

 MC-231123

 "Removed void fog today. Now we don't need to tick air blocks (seriously, WTH?), and honestly, who actually *liked* the void fog?"  – @TheMogMiner (Ryan Holtz) on X (formerly Twitter), August 19, 2014

 MC-170879

 MC-3615 (did the other listed fix version change anything?)

 MC-32452

 This type of fog was previously available only for users of Nvidia GPUs, as it depended on the GL_NV_fog_distance OpenGL extension.

 MC-214186

 MC-71530

 MC-219893

 MC-213743

 MC-219894

Notes

 This color is only applied for 15%, making it appear mostly black, and it does not affect the End sky.

 Renders behind the semi-transparent End sky texture to tint it.

Navigation