This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Complete animation request on File:On Campfire (top texture) JE1 BE1.png and proper renders needed.

Contents

1 Assets

1.1 Java Edition

1.1.1 Block texture and model history

1.2 Bedrock Edition
1.3 Legacy Console Edition

2 Navigation

Assets
Java Edition
Block texture and model history

Yellow

The block was introduced in this version.

Green

The block's texture was changed in this version.

Blue

The block's model was changed in this version.

Purple

The block's texture and model were both changed in this version.

Orange

Another visual change was made to the block in this version which does not fit in any of the above categories.

Red

The block was either removed in this version, no longer exists, or did not yet exist.

Cases where the model did not change are represented by cells spanning multiple rows.Cases where the model did change, but the change is not visible via the default view angle, are given separate cells.Changes which are not externally visible are not given cells.

From version

Unlit

Lit

Textures used

Further info

North

East

South

West

North

East

South

West

Before

After

1.14

19w02a

-

File:On Campfire (top texture) JE1 BE1.gif

Introduction; the block is not currently directional.

19w03a

File:On Campfire (top texture) JE1 BE1.gif

Model redone; the block is now directional.

Bedrock Edition



This section is missing information about: Verify that the information for texture/model changes from the main page is comprehensive, and whether the models and textures are the same as in Java Edition or different 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Legacy Console Edition



This section is missing information about: Verify that the information for texture/model changes from the main page is comprehensive, and whether the models and textures are the same as in Java Edition or different 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Navigation