Not to be confused with Eroded Badlands.
 For the Minecraft Dungeons mission, see Dungeons: Radiant Ravine.
 For the sub dungeons in Minecraft Dungeons, see MCD:Fossil Canyon, MCD:Ravine Ruins, and MCD:Hydrothermal Vent.

Canyon

Biomes

Overworld

Generates inexisting chunks  

Yes

{
    "title": "Canyon",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:EnvSprite overworld.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Overworld|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Overworld article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Overworld</span>)</span>",
            "label": "(link to Biome article, displayed as Biomes)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "Generates in<br>existing chunks  "
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Canyon.png"
    ]
}

Canyons (formerly and commonly known as ravines) are deep and long cracks breaching the underground layers of the Overworld. Occasionally, they may breach the surface, potentially exposing caves that would not normally be visible otherwise.

Contents

1 Structure

1.1 Lava lakes

2 Generation
3 Data values

3.1 ID

4 History

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition
4.3 Legacy Console Edition
4.4 Historical screenshots

5 Issues
6 Trivia
7 Gallery
8 Navigation

Structure
Canyons are around 85 to 127 blocks in length and typically less than 15 blocks wide. Water-filled canyons can also be found in any ocean biome. Canyons are up to 62 blocks in depth and can start at levels 10 to 72. Canyons in amplified worlds and in Bedrock Edition may go all the way down to the bedrock layer, causing canyons spawning in mountainous biomes to appear deeper. A canyon extending down to bedrock causes lava sources to generate at the bottom. Obsidian often forms at the bottom as water springs flow down into the lava.
Canyons may have small ledges along the top. Deep canyons sometimes spawn slimes or expose a diamond ore vein. Canyons may also be floored by the lava lakes at level -55 or even deeper.
Canyons can connect to caves, amethyst geodes, monster rooms, mineshafts, strongholds or any other generated structures. Due to the large surface area of their walls, canyons often have water and lava flowing down them from springs in the walls, aquifers or openings to a lake or an ocean biome. A canyon that intersects a river, a frozen river or a swamp is filled with stone under the body of water.

An interactive widget is being loaded. If this does not work for you, please reload the page or check if JavaScript is working or enabled.
Lava lakes
A lava lake inside of a canyon.
Similarly to how lakes replace all air blocks below a certain altitude on the surface, when deep enough in a canyon, all blocks that would generate as air instead generate as lava lakes.

Generation
Main article: World generation § Carvers
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

Configured carverIdentifier
 [No displayed name]canyon

Bedrock Edition:

FeatureIdentifier
 [No displayed name][No ID]

History
Java Edition
Java Edition BetaMay 17, 2011
Ravines are included as unused content in a developer fork of Beta 1.2_02, nearly 4 months before being added.1.8Pre-release
Added ravines.Java Edition1.1318w06a
Ravines now generate in the Nether.18w08a
Ravines can now generate underwater in oceans.1.1418w43a
Ravines are now known as Canyons.1.1721w06a
Canyons can no longer generate underwater in oceans.21w15a
Canyons can once again generate underwater in oceans.1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
Canyons can no longer generate underwater in oceans.experimental snapshot 6
Canyons can once again generate underwater in oceans.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Added ravines.1.4.0beta 1.2.14.2
Ravines can now generate underwater.1.21.60Preview 1.21.60.24
Canyons now generate more often.
Canyons can once again reach the surface.
Canyons can once again generate on the ocean floor.
Canyon now completely carve through copper veins.
Canyons now properly interact with aquifers, filling with water instead of generating as disconnected segments.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added ravines.TU69 1.761.761.76Patch 38
Ravines can now generate underwater in oceans.
Historical screenshots



			Canyons were included unused in a developer fork of 1.2_02



			The first image of a ravine



			An image from Notch of a ravine cutting through a stronghold


Issues
Issues relating to "Canyon" or "Ravine" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
In Bedrock Edition the seed 1669320484 generates a huge canyon extending endlessly from southwest to northeast at coordinate X=−1269, Z=0, shaped by countless identical connected north-south canyons. There are other lines of canyons parallel to this one, but few of them are visible aboveground or have the canyons connected. This seed also generates parallel lines of endless monster rooms underground. As of 1.18, nearly all endless canyons are underground.
It is relatively common to find multiple intersecting canyons, often running perpendicular to the parent canyon, on different Y levels. Before the introduction of large noise caves in 1.18, this phenomenon led to some of the largest possible caves in the game.
An early version of canyons exist in an unreleased build of Beta 1.2_02, generating above and underground, and being noticeably shorter in height.



			Wide-angle view of endless canyon in Bedrock Edition seed 1669320484



			View toward horizon along endless canyon



			Village generated on the rim of the endless canyon


Gallery



			Two canyons joined together underground



			Two canyons open to the sky that generated next to each other, with a river biome between them



			An underwater canyon



			A canyon that exposed a mineshaft



			A deep cliff reaching bedrock levels



			A canyon generated under another canyon



			A small canyon viewed from the sky



			A canyon viewed from inside



			A canyon that has been cut through by an ocean



			A hole in the ground through which a canyon is visible



			Iron and lapis ores exposed to sunlight in deep canyon



			Water flowing into the canyon from nearby river



			Canyon generation may not always update nearby water



			A tree that generated in a canyon, next to the lava and mineshaft



			Water generated in midair over a large connected canyon



			A jungle pyramid, stronghold, and mineshaft generated together in one canyon



			A triple canyon with a mineshaft at the bottom



			Naturally generated diamond ore, redstone ore, and lapis lazuli ore found in a canyon. Check the image for seed and coordinates



			Two underwater canyons merged together



			A 120 block deep canyon in Bedrock Edition



			Relatively slim and shallow canyon in plains biome



			Slim, but rather deep canyon generated in plains biome



			Double canyon with many mineshaft bridges in it



			A canyon that generated underwater



			Canyon with multiple ores, water and lava falls, and stronghold bridge over it



			Badlands mineshaft bridge generated over a canyon



			A ruined portal generated on top of a canyon



			A canyon in Bedrock Edition



			A canyon in Bedrock Edition



			A canyon in Bedrock Edition



			A canyon in the Nether



			A canyon with lava in an undeleted world



			An X-Ray view of a canyon



			A tree in the canyon



			A large dripstone canyon reaches the bedrock layer



			A canyon is generated underwater



			A fossil in a canyon



			Ditto, but different angle



			Ditto, but different angle



			A canyon filled with water near a river



			A slim canyon near a river



			Canyon taken from Vibrant Visuals



			A reef in a underwater canyon



			A Mineshaft bridge in a deep canyon



			A fossil in an underwater canyon



			A canyon that is flooded



			A canyon that is near fossil and the ocean ruins


Navigation