For the mentioned feature, see Mentioned features § Mentioned in 2009.



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Capture the Flag

Developer(s)

Mojang Studios

Edition(s)

Bedrock Edition

Release date

1st: July 1, 2025
2nd: September 30, 2025
3rd: January 20, 2026
4th: May 12, 2026

Closing date

1st: July 4, 2025
2nd: October 6, 2025
3rd: January 30, 2026
4th: May 15, 2026

{
    "title": "Capture the Flag",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as ''Bedrock Edition'')",
            "label": "Edition(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* '''1st:''' July 1, 2025\n* '''2nd:''' September 30, 2025\n* '''3rd:''' January 20, 2026\n* '''4th:''' May 12, 2026",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* '''1st:''' July 4, 2025\n* '''2nd:''' October 6, 2025\n* '''3rd:''' January 30, 2026\n* '''4th:''' May 15, 2026",
            "label": "Closing date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Capture the Flag server.png"
    ]
}
Capture the Flag is a minigame event server hosted by Mojang Studios, and the first to be introduced as a featured experience. It features a traditional capture the flag minigame and a deathmatch minigame, where players are able to compete with a team, capture the opposing team's flag, and defend their own. Players can also get the Flag Runner Headband redeemed for 250 gems; an in game currency that is earned by finishing a game, killing a player, or capturing a flag.
The server is available during a few days every once in a while.

Contents

1 Availablility
2 Gameplay

2.1 Playing field
2.2 Post game

3 Places

3.1 Central Tower
3.2 Arena
3.3 Castle

4 Reward
5 Book pages
6 Server listing

6.1 Description
6.2 Activities

7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Central Tower
8.2 Arena
8.3 Castle

8.3.1 Dark castle
8.3.2 Ice tower
8.3.3 Nether tower
8.3.4 Desert tower
8.3.5 Bamboo tower

8.4 Secret

8.4.1 Parrot Room
8.4.2 Unused

9 Notes
10 Navigation

Availablility
It was first brought online starting on July 1, 2025, and ended on July 4.
The server was brought back online again starting on September 30, 2025, and lasted until October 6, at approximately 23:40 UTC. There have been issues where the server would sometimes not show up in the featured servers list.
On January 20, 2026, it was opened for a third time, and the server closed on January 31, at approximately 00:00 UTC.
On May 12, 2026, it was opened for a fourth time at approximately 19:30 UTC, closed on May 15.

Gameplay
Playing field
Drawing a bow at an opponent.
When players join a match on the "Arena" map, they're randomly assigned to the red or blue team. Each player starts at their team's spawn point, equipped with a bow and arrow, and have three hearts. Their main objective is to capture the opposing team's flag while defending their own, and winning the game by reaching the highest captured flag score for their team.
On the "Castle" map, players are randomly assigned to either the red, blue, green, or yellow team. Like the Arena, players start at their team's spawn point, and are given a bow and arrows and have 3 hearts. Each tower also contains a flag correlating with the team's color. However, capturing these flags at the respective base does not add any value to the score, except for the player's personal capture count. In order to win in this map, teams must compete in a death-match, where the first to get 20 kills wins the game.
Players can deal one heart of damage to other opponents by shooting them with the bow. When a flag is equipped, players can deal 3 hearts of damage to players, instantly defeating them. Upon killing one, they are rewarded with 5 gems. They are able to hit each other by melee attack, but doing so doesn't deal any damage.
The hotbar is noticeably gone, but players could still select other items using the  Scroll Wheel. The player's current statistic is shown on the top right of the screen, with the icons from top to bottom showing their earned gems, kills, deaths, and captured flag score. The player's current hearts is shown above the usual hotbar placement; other players' current hearts are also shown above their usernames.
Each team's flag is located near its own spawn point. When a player captures a flag, they must return it to their own team's flag to score a point for their team. A noticeable speed decrease is applied while moving with a captured flag.

Post game
Post game screen showing the player's statistics.
The game tracks the scores for each team after capturing a flag in the scoreboard, and displayed on the sidebar. The first team to reach the maximum score wins the match, with the winning team's players receive the highest gems reward, while the losing team gets fewer. The numbers of maximum score and gems rewarded varies depending on the map:

Arena has 3 captured flag and 50 gems reward for the winning team, while the losing team gets 25 gems.
Castle has 20 captured flag and 100 gems reward for the winning team, while the losing team gets 50 gems.
A post game screen is displayed, showing the player's match statistics, such as their kills, deaths, K/D ratio (kill/death ratio), flag captures, and gems earned. Players can play a new match or return to the hub from the screen.

Places



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Central Tower
Players spawn inside of a large, blackstone castle within the Crimson Ruins. Behind the spawn area is a curious installment made up of chiseled stone, crying obsidian, and froglights, with a blue parrot dancing inside. Walking down a stairway of stone brick slabs, the player can pass by large tapestries and boilers of lava, exiting out either a giant door under a stained glass window or two detours lined with nether brick floors and lanterns. Outside the castle is an NPC, the Macaw Guardian, with two written books on lecterns which tell the story of a conflict happening in the game world. When interacting with the NPC, they are able to choose from two maps: Arena and Castle.
Behind all that is a small drawbridge made of chiseled nether bricks, blackstone, and resin bricks, where a view can be seen of the towers. On a few spots of the bridge are magma blocks which can kill the player. Right of this area and left of the gate is a series of red nether brick slabs, serving as a parkour challenge. Climbing up these will lead the player up to a balcony above the spawn area, underneath the window, before leading to a narrow strip of slabs ending on a ladder. Halfway the parkour challenge is a secret passageway, indicated by the sign saying it is a secret passageway. Trough the passageway are signs hinting about what the tunnel could lead to. At the end is a dancing parrot and an entrance to a secret room .

Arena
A small map consists of the two blue and red sides opposing each other. Each side has a castle where the team's flag and spawn point are located. Players can climb on top of the castle to see the entire arena. On the front, there are pillars on each side which players can climb through the vines. The playing field has a tall tower on the center of the map. There are hallways in the edges around the playing field; they can be accessed from each team's castle, or entrances between the tall tower.

Castle
The Volcano Heart leaking out lava inside the dark castle.
A massive map with a prominent dark stone castle standing at the map's center, within the inside hides the Volcano Heart, which looks like it is leaking out lava to the ground floor made out of deepslate materials. The top of the heart features slime blocks (covered by carpets) which players can bounce off from the rooftop of the dark castle. The outside walls of the dark castle are made of a mixture of deepslate and stone bricks.
There are four Elemental Towers built around the dark castle:

Ice tower which features a cold and snowy environment, with multiple tall, slender towers and spires and a tower with a large, arched doorway. It is built with snow blocks, light concretes, prismarines, and other blocks with various shades of light blue, white, and a greenish-teal, giving it a very cool and pristine appearance. It is used as the blue team's spawn point, as well the team's flag.
Nether tower which features a hell-like environment, with numerous tall, huge crimson fungus that are scattered across the landscape. The primary entrance to the tower is framed by nether bricks and has glowing shroomlights, leading into the base with invasive warped and crimson fungus. It is used as the red team's spawn point, as well the team's flag.
Desert tower which features sandy terrain, with multiple cactus and dry grasses spread throughout the landscape. There is a savanna area with a pond which resembles an oasis. The tower primarily made of sandstones and many of its variants. A dried ghast can be seen near the dark castle, which shows the harsh environment of the desert.
Bamboo tower which features green and lush environment, with oak and jungle trees on the terrain. The tower looks overgrown with vines and other vegetation, with the base building primarily made of out bamboo blocks and the outside pathway to the dark castle with mud bricks.
Each of them have a bridge connecting to the fortified open-air bastion of the dark castle.

Reward



This section would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Needs runner blue headband render.

Players that earned 250 gems from playing CTF can redeem them at the Macaw Guardian to gain the Flag Runner Headband as a Character Creator item. A Blue headband was given out on 8/4/25 to those who already claimed Red.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Icon

Render

Flag Runner Headband

Headwear

Rare

Flag Runner Headband Blue

Headwear

Rare

Book pages
There are written books on lectern near Macaw Guardian which tell the story of "Hanging Island Tournament":






















Transcript
Page 1 of 10
Hanging Island Tournament
by Macaw Guardian
Page 2 of 10
Welcome to Crimson Ruins, Adventurer!
From here, you can take part in the tournament on the Hanging Island.
"Why take part", you ask?
Page 3 of 10
The gates have to be held to launch the Volcano Heart - long ago moved away from the core by unknown forces.
It hovers in the middle of the island, beating, pumping lava into the molten basin of the Great Macaw Mountain.
Page 4 of 10
Central Tower has been built around it, likely to protect or harness it.
Judging by the state of the towers, the experiments have not gone well.
The exact origin of the Elemental Towers is shrouded in mystery.
Page 5 of 10
The remaining records found in the Crimson Ruins state only that the games MUST take place or the volcano is going to erupt.
While the mountain was presumed dormant, fields and cities have formed around the fertile soil.
Page 6 of 10
sustaining the Tribes.
Eruption threatens to destroy all that. If the games fail, it *will* destroy your home.
*You* can change that.
*You* have a chance to become part of history.
Page 7 of 10
Join forces with others in battle for the future of this land!
Good luck and thank you, Adventurer!

- Macaw Guardian of This Generation
Page 8 of 10
->
Page 9 of 10
Have fun!
And thank you for playing our map!

~Mojang Studios~
Page 10 of 10
<blank>

Server listing
See also: Server list

The server's banner on the featured servers.
Description
The featured servers listed Capture the Flag server with the following description:

“Mojang Studios needs your help! Join this Capture the Flag server and help us test our server tech. Compete with a team and be the first to capture the opposing team's flag while defending your own!„ — Mojang Studios on the server's description
Activities
The Flag Runner Headband was listed as the reward in the server's activities:

“Unlock the Flag Runner Headband
Test a feature and earn a reward!
Play Capture the Flag and earn gems to unlock the Character Creator item Flag Runner Headband

„ — Mojang Studios on the server's activity
Trivia
The "Flag Runner Headband" was originally called "Faster than Lightning" before being renamed.
The spawn hub uses the same map as Castle being in the nighttime; the Central Tower where the player spawn can be seen on the background behind the ice tower.
There is text word on the sky written "MADE WITH EDITOR", suggesting the map was made with Bedrock Editor.
Players can go out of bound from the Crimson Ruins by jumping at the top right corner of the bridge near the Macaw Guardian. This makes the entire Castle map accessible in the nighttime.
Gallery
Central Tower



			Text word on the nighttime sky written "MADE WITH EDITOR"



			A player using emote on the bridge



			Players going out of bound











			A Mojang employee wearing the Mojang Studios cape







			The Crimson Ruins hallway



			Macaw Guardian NPC



			Map Marker above Macaw Guardian


Arena



			Arena map



































			Steve holding the red team's Flag


Castle
Dark castle



			A light brimming from the top of the dark castle



			Inside the dark castle



			The Volcano Heart inside the dark castle


Ice tower



			The ice tower captured from the desert tower with the Central Tower seen on the background.



			A player capturing a flag.



			The dark castle's entrance from the ice tower.



			The blue team's flag position in the ice tower ground floor.



			Ice castle arched doorway.


Nether tower



			Nether tower



			A bridge connecting to the nether tower



			Inside the nether tower on the ground floor



			The crimson fungus scattered outside the nether tower.


Desert tower



			The pillars holding the bridge connecting the desert tower to the dark castle.



			Dried ghast near the dark castle and outside the desert environment.


Bamboo tower



			Outside of the bamboo tower.



			Bridge leading to the bamboo tower



			A bridge connecting between ice and bamboo towers.


Secret
Parrot Room



			A parrot room hidden under spawn on the left side.



			Inside are 5 Parrots, (White: Rajmund, cool guy), (Green: Tari, the pirate), (Red: Mario, the plumer), (Blue: Tasha, the mischievous bird), (White: Eustace, the OG).



			The exit of the Parrot Room using sticky piston doors and a water elevator.



			You can find this room at the end of the secret tunnel halfway the parkour challenge.


Unused



			Unused Castle out of bounds far away.



			The area below the Central Tower.



			Unusable commands



			Button serves no purpose and currently does nothing


Notes

 These are unofficial names, as they are unnamed in the game itself.

Navigation