For other uses, see Caves & Cliffs (disambiguation).

Caves & Cliffs










Release date

June 8, 2021 (Part I)November 30, 2021 (Part II)

Version(s)

Java Edition 1.17 (Part I)Bedrock Edition 1.17.0 (Part I)Java Edition 1.18 (Part II)Bedrock Edition 1.18.0 (Part II)

Preliminaryname(s)

Underground Update

◄◄ Nether Update

The Wild Update ►►

{
    "title": "Caves & Cliffs",
    "images": [
        "Java Edition 1.17.jpg",
        "Bedrock Edition 1.17.0.jpg",
        "Caves&Cliffs2Java.jpg",
        "Caves&Cliffs2Bedrock.jpg"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "June 8, 2021 <small>(Part I)</small><br>November 30, 2021 <small>(Part II)</small>",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Java Edition 1.17 article, displayed as Java Edition 1.17) <small>(Part I)</small><br>(link to Bedrock Edition 1.17.0 article, displayed as Bedrock Edition 1.17.0) <small>(Part I)</small><br>(link to Java Edition 1.18 article, displayed as Java Edition 1.18) <small>(Part II)</small><br>(link to Bedrock Edition 1.18.0 article, displayed as Bedrock Edition 1.18.0) <small>(Part II)</small>",
            "label": "Version(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Underground Update",
            "label": "Preliminary<br>name(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\"><span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">◄</span>◄ [[Nether Update]]</div>\n\n</div><div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[The Wild Update]] <span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">►</span>►</div>\n</div>"
}

Caves & Cliffs logo.



 There are guides for this update! 
See Java Edition guides/Caves & Cliffs and Bedrock Edition guides/Caves & Cliffs for a guide to all of the new features introduced in Caves & Cliffs.

Caves & Cliffs, also known as the Cave Update, is the name of two major themed updates for Java and Bedrock editions. The first part was released as Java Edition 1.17 and Bedrock Edition 1.17.0 on June 8, 2021, which focused on blocks and mobs. The second part was released as Java Edition 1.18 and Bedrock Edition 1.18.0 on November 30, 2021, and brought major changes to Overworld generation, including new caves and mountains.

Contents

1 Announcement
2 Release
3 Additions

3.1 Blocks
3.2 Items
3.3 Mobs
3.4 Non-mob entities
3.5 World generation

3.5.1 Biomes
3.5.2 Features

3.6 Sounds
3.7 Soundtrack

4 Changes

4.1 Blocks
4.2 Items
4.3 Mobs
4.4 Non-mob entities
4.5 World generation

4.5.1 Ore distribution
4.5.2 Biomes
4.5.3 Features
4.5.4 Structures

5 Further revisions

5.1 Java Edition
5.2 Bedrock Edition

6 Promotions

6.1 Caves & Cliffs Explorers
6.2 A Caves & Cliffs Story

7 Videos

7.1 Trailer
7.2 Showcases

7.2.1 Java Edition

7.2.1.1 1.17
7.2.1.2 1.18

7.3 Other
7.4 Soundtrack

8 Quotes
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Mojang images
10.2 Concept artwork
10.3 Official artwork

10.3.1 Infographics

11 References
12 External links
13 Navigation

Announcement
Caves & Cliffs was announced in Minecraft Live 2020, and on April 14, 2021, Mojang Studios announced that the update would be split into two portions due to the amount and complexity of content, as well as team health. It was later announced in Minecraft Live 2021 that the Deep Dark portion, as well as certain items, of the Caves & Cliffs update would be delayed until The Wild Update to improve quality.

Release
On Java Edition, Part I started development with snapshot 20w45a, which was released on November 4, 2020. The first pre-release for Caves & Cliffs: Part I was released on May 27, 2021, and the first release candidate on June 4, 2021. Part II started development with 1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1, which was released on July 13, 2021, followed by the first pre-release on November 11, 2021, and the first release candidate on November 25, 2021.
On Bedrock Edition, Part I started development with beta 1.16.200.52, which was released on October 28, 2020. Most of the Part I features were behind experimental gameplay toggle until the Part I release and were not included in the full 1.16.200, 1.16.210, and 1.16.220 release. In Part II, development continued with beta 1.17.30.23, which was released on August 25, 2021. In 1.17.10, released on July 13, 2021, non-beta users were able to test out most of early Part II features behind experimental gameplay.
Both Java and Bedrock editions received Caves & Cliffs: Part I on June 8, 2021, and Caves & Cliffs: Part II on November 30, 2021.
Additionally, features from Caves & Cliffs: Part I, were released for Minecraft Education in 1.17.30 on November 2, 2021. Part II features were released in 1.18.32 on August 9, 2022.
For China Edition, Caves & Cliffs: Part I was released on January 21, 2022, and Part II on August 27, 2022.

Additions
Blocks
Amethyst family of blocks:

 Amethyst bud and Amethyst cluster
Grows from a budding amethyst.
When amethyst clusters are broken, it drops amethyst shards.
 Block of amethyst
Crafted with amethyst shards.
 Budding amethyst
Cannot be mined using Silk Touch.
Used to grow an amethyst cluster.
Azalea family of blocks:

Bush looking plants that include normal and flowering variant.
Flowering variants attract bees.
  Azalea and Flowering azalea
Found in lush caves.
Can also be generated from using bone meal on a moss block.
Using bone meal generates an azalea tree.
 Can be potted.
 Azalea leaves and Flowering azalea leaves
Part of the azalea tree.
 Rooted dirt
Generate underneath the azalea tree as a cluster of roots.
Can also spawn post-generation by growing an azalea tree with bone meal.
Bone meal can be used to grow hanging roots.
Using a hoe to harvest hanging roots.
 Hanging roots
Found on the undersides of rooted dirt.
 Calcite

Found surrounding amethyst geodes and in stony peaks.
 Candle

Crafted by combining 1 honeycomb and 1 string.
Unlit when placed.
 Four can be placed in one block.
 Can be lit using flint and steel or fire charge.
Can also be dyed in 16 colors.
 Can also be placed on cakes.
 Cave vines

Found in lush caves.
Planted by placing glow berries on the bottom of a block.
Bone meal can be used to grow glow berries on empty vines.
Copper block set:

 Copper ore
Found in y-levels between -16 and 112.
Drops raw copper when mined without Silk Touch.
 Block of copper
Has 4 levels of oxidation and can be waxed to prevent further oxidation.
The wax can be scraped off using an axe.
 Cut copper
 Cut copper stairs
 Cut copper slab
 Lightning rod
Crafted using three copper ingots.
Does not oxidize.
Used to redirect lightning strikes within a 128 block radius.
Can also be hit with a trident with Channeling during a thunderstorm.
Deepslate block set:

Dark-looking rocks that generate below y-levels from 8 to -63, gradually replacing stone.
Is harder and takes longer to mine compared to stone.
 Deepslate
Drops cobbled deepslate when mined with a non-Silk Touch pickaxe.
 Deepslate variants of the 7 existing Overworld ores.
 Infested deepslate
Same behavior as other infested blocks, if broken can spawn silverfish.
 Cobbled deepslate
Can be used in lieu of cobblestone for most recipes.
Can be smelted into deepslate.
 Cobbled deepslate stairs
 Cobbled deepslate slab
 Cobbled deepslate wall
 Polished deepslate
 Polished deepslate stairs
 Polished deepslate slab
 Polished deepslate wall
 Deepslate bricks
 Deepslate brick stairs
 Deepslate brick slab
 Deepslate brick wall
 Cracked deepslate bricks
 Deepslate tiles
Crafted from 4 deepslate bricks.
 Deepslate tile stairs
 Deepslate tile slab
 Deepslate tile wall
 Cracked deepslate tiles
 Chiseled deepslate
Dripleaf

Plants with big leaves that generate in lush caves.
 Small dripleaf
Can only be place underwater in certain blocks.
Can be place on land on clay or moss block.
Using bone meal turns it to a big dripleaf.
 Big dripleaf
Can be used as a temporary platform.
 The longer a player, mob, or entity stands on it, the leaf droops down and drops them before returning to its untilted state.
If powered, they don't droop down.
 Dripstone block

Found in dripstone caves.
Can also be crafted using four pointed dripstone.
Used to grow pointed dripstone.
 Pointed dripstone
Found in dripstone caves.
Forms a stalactite when placed on the bottom of a block.
Forms a stalagmite when placed on the top of a block.
Forms a pillar when a stalactite and stalagmite meet.
 Glow lichen

A naturally occurring light source found rarely in caves, growing on any face of a block.
Obtained with shears, otherwise breaks.
Up to 6 can be put on the same block space, merging into one block.
 Moss block

Found in lush caves.
Spreads to adjacent blocks using bone meal.
Can generate short grass, tall grass, azaleas, and moss carpet.
 Moss carpet
Crafted using two moss blocks adjacent to each other.
 Powder snow

Found in groves and snowy slopes.
Can also be farmed using a cauldron when snowing.
Causes players and mobs to fall through and move at a slow speed.
Rabbits, foxes, silverfishes, endermites, and players or mobs wearing leather boots don't fall through the powder snow.
Staying too long in powder snow causes freeze damage.
Polar bears, snow golems, strays or mobs wearing leather armor don't freeze in the powder snow.
Raw metal blocks:

Raw variants of the existing metal blocks.
 Block of raw iron
 Block of raw gold
 Block of raw copper
 Smooth basalt

Found surrounding amethyst geodes.
Obtained by smelting regular basalt.
 Spore blossom

Found in lush caves.
Produces green particles from above.
 Tinted glass

Crafted using a glass block surrounded by four amethyst shards.
Allows the ability to see through the block but blocks out light from within.
 Tuff

Found in blobs sizes underground from y-levels of -63 to 0.
Can also be found in iron ore veins.
Items
 Amethyst shard

Obtained by mining an amethyst cluster.
Used to craft tinted glass, blocks of amethyst, and the spyglass.
 Bucket of axolotl

Obtained by using a water bucket on an axolotl.
Can be used to transport the axolotl to a new location.
 Copper ingot

Obtained from smelting raw copper.
Used to create copper blocks, lightning rods, and the spyglass.
 Glow berries

Grows on cave vines found naturally in lush caves.
Restores 2 () hunger and gives 0.4 hunger saturation.
 Glow ink sac

Obtained as drops from glow squids.
Used to make signs glow in the dark.
Can also be used to craft glow item frames.
 "Otherside" music disc

Obtained from loot chests in monster rooms and strongholds.
The music was composed by Lena Raine.
 Powder snow bucket

Obtained from using a bucket on powder snow or a cauldron that is filled with powder snow.
Used to place powder snow, which does not have an item form.
   Raw metal

Obtained from mining their respective ores
Smelts into its corresponding ingots.
Spawn eggs:

 Axolotl spawn egg
 Glow squid spawn egg
 Goat spawn egg
 Spyglass

Crafted using a amethyst shard on top of two copper ingots.
Used to zoom in from afar.
Mobs
 Axolotl

An aquatic passive mob that spawns in lush caves.
Comes in five different colors:
 Lucy\Leucistic axolotl
 Wild axolotl
 Gold axolotl
 Cyan axolotl
 Blue axolotl
Only obtainable through breeding by 1 in 1200% chance.
Can be bred with bucket of tropical fish.
Can stay out of water for 5 minutes before it dehydrates.
Attacks fish and squids.
Always attack drowned, guardian, and elder guardian.
Can assist the player in aquatic combat, and grant Regeneration.
 Will play dead when low health underwater in order to regenerate health.
In that state, enemy mobs will ignore.
 Glow squid

A variant of the squid that spawns in dark, underwater areas.
They appear to glow, but does not produce any light.
Drops glow ink sacs when killed.
 Goat

A neutral mob that spawns in mountain biomes.
Can jump 10 blocks tall.
Takes less fall damage relative to some other mobs.
Avoids powder snow.
Will try to ram into a stationary entity, including the player.
If successful, the entity takes 1HP to 3HP damage and is dealt 9 blocks of knockback.
Having a rare screaming variant.
Tend to be more aggressive than normal goats.
Can be bred with wheat.
 Baby goats don’t have horns.
Non-mob entities
 Glow item frame

Crafted using an glow ink sac and item frame.
Acts similarly to standard item frames, but items and maps are visible in the dark.
World generation
Major overhaul of terrain and cave generation, with a new expanded world height from top to bottom.
Biomes can now be generated in 3D, with different biomes depending now on y-level.
Caves are now composed of two layers depending on depth.
A stone layer, found in y-levels above 0.
A deepslate layer, found in y-levels below 8.
Aquifers, or bodies of water, generate deep underground, independent of sea level at Y=63.
Caves now come in three noise generations: "cheese", "spaghetti", and "noodle".
Cheese caves are large sprawling caves with stone pillars from top to bottom, and allows for elytra flight.
Spaghetti caves are long, thin caves with smaller aquifers.
Noodle caves are thinner, and smaller compared to spaghetti caves.
Upgrading worlds before this update now blend chunk boundaries from old chunks to new chunks seamlessly.
The bedrock layer for older worlds is converted to deepslate.
Biomes
Cave biomes:

Dripstone caves
Found underground in areas that are the farthest away from any ocean biomes.
Generates with dripstone blocks, pointed dripstone, water, and copper ore.
Drowned can also spawn here.
Lush caves
Found underground in areas with high humidity, such as jungles.
Axolotls and tropical fishes can only be found here.
Generates with azalea, moss block, moss carpet, grass, tall grass, vines, water, clay, small and big dripleaf, spore blossoms, and glow berries.
Mountain biomes:

Slopes
Grove
Found near slopes of snowy mountains that are near forest biomes.
Rabbits, wolves, and foxes spawn here.
Generates with snow blocks and powder snow.
Meadow
An elevated grassy biome, that is cold but filled with flowers.
Generates with grass, tall grass, dandelions, azure bluets, cornflowers, poppies, oxeye daisies, and alliums.
Sheep, rabbits and donkeys spawn here.
Snowy slopes
Found near slopes of mountains next to plains or snowy plains.
Goats and rabbits spawn here.
Generates with snow, snow blocks, and powder snow.
Peaks
Frozen peaks
Found in smooth and less jagged peaks in areas with snowy, cold, or temperate biomes.
Goats can spawn here.
Generates with snow, snow blocks, ice, and packed ice.
Jagged peaks
Found in sharp and jagged peaks in areas with snowy, cold, or temperate biomes.
Goats can spawn here.
Generates with snow, snow blocks, and stone.
Stony peaks
Found in areas that are surrounded by warm biomes, such as jungles and savannas.
Generates with stone, gravel, and calcite.
Features
 Amethyst geode

Found underground.
Surrounded by smooth basalt and calcite; the inside contains block of amethyst and amethyst clusters.
 Azalea tree

Generates on the Overworld’s surface as a visual indicator to a lush cave below with roots of rooted dirt underground.
Can also generate when bone meal is used on azalea or flowering azalea.
Contains azalea leaves, flowering azalea leaves, oak logs and a rooted dirt underneath.
 Dripstone

Generates as cluster of dripstone blocks or with pointed dripstone.
Ore vein

Large underground veins that usually consist of high amount of iron or copper ores and some blocks.
Iron vein consist of deepslate iron ore, tuff and raw iron.
Copper vein consist of copper ore, granite, and raw copper.
 Underwater magma

Generates on underground bodies of water.
Sounds
Items

Added sounds for dyes and bonemeal when used.
Soundtrack
Main article: Minecraft: Caves & Cliffs (Original Game Soundtrack)
Eight new ambient tracks from Lena Raine and Kumi Tanioka were added; all but the tracks by Kumi Tanioka would play on the main menu until The Wild Update.
"Stand Tall" by Lena Raine
Plays in snowy slopes, jagged peaks, frozen peaks, and stony peaks.
"Left to Bloom" by Lena Raine
Plays in lush caves, meadows, and any other biome that does not already have a corresponding set of biome-specific music.
"Wending" by Lena Raine
Plays in groves, jagged peaks, stony peaks, and dripstone caves.
"Infinite Amethyst" by Lena Raine
Plays in groves and dripstone caves.
"One More Day" by Lena Raine
Plays in meadows, snowy slopes, lush caves, and any other biome that does not already have a corresponding set of biome-specific music.
"Floating Dream" by Kumi Tanioka
Plays in jagged peaks, lush caves, and any other biome that does not already have a corresponding set of biome-specific music.
"Comforting Memories" by Kumi Tanioka
Plays in groves and any other biome that does not already have a corresponding set of biome-specific music.
"An Ordinary Day" by Kumi Tanioka
Plays in snowy slopes, dripstone caves, and lush caves.
Changes
Blocks
Blackstone, gilded blackstone, polished blackstone bricks, and cracked polished blackstone bricks as well as stair, slab and wall variants

Slightly changed the texture.
Block of lapis lazuli

Renamed from "Lapis Lazuli Block" to "Block of Lapis Lazuli".
 Cake

Have a variation called "Cake with Candle".
Can be created by using a candle on an uneaten cake.
The candle on the cake comes in 17 colors, depending on the color of the candle used to create it.
The candle pops off when any of the cake is eaten.
  Cauldron

Can now be filled with lava (previous exclusive to Bedrock Edition) and powder snow.
Lava-filled cauldrons can damage players and mobs inside of them, and give off a redstone comparator signal of strength 3.
Powder snow cauldrons are formed when cauldrons are under the sky during snowfall.
Can also be filled with powder snow by using a powder snow bucket on it.
Can also fill with water or lava when a pointed dripstone has the liquid on top.
 Dirt path

Changed texture.
Renamed from "Grass Path" to "Dirt Path".
Can now be made on top of dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, mycelium, and podzol.
Dispenser

Can now place powder snow using a powder snow bucket.
Can also remove it using a bucket.
Can be used to wax copper blocks with Honeycomb.
 Ores

Changed textures for better distinction to accommodate colorblind players.
Diamond ore kept the classic shape with only some minor tweaks with colorization.
Iron ore and gold ore no longer drops itself when mined with a non-Silk Touch pickaxe; instead giving their raw mineral form.
This permits both blocks to be affected with Fortune for the first time for increased drops.
 Signs

Changed textures to better match with the new plank texture.
Can now be tinted with glow ink sacs to make the text glow.
Glowing signs do not affect the light level, but appear as if the text itself is illuminated.
Regular ink sacs can be used to remove the glowing effect.
Items
Change several item textures for consistency:

 Campfire
 Clock
 Compass
 Doors
 Item frame
 Signs
 Soul campfire
 Sugar cane
Axe

Can now be used to de-wax copper blocks.
Honeycomb

Can now be used to wax copper blocks.
Leather armor

Prevents the player or mob from freezing in the powder snow.
Wearing leather boots prevents them from sinking.
Can also be used to "swim" in the powder snow.
Mobs
The light level spawn rate of monsters had been decreased to 0.
Drowned

No longer drops gold ingots.
Instead, now drops copper ingots.
Skeleton

Now converts into strays on a powder snow instead of freezing to death.
 Siamese cat

Changed texture.
Shulker

If a shulker is hit by another shulker's projectile, it now has a chance of spawning a new shulker. Shulkers are more likely to spawn new shulkers when there are fewer shulkers nearby.
Non-mob entities
 Spectral arrow‌[Java Edition  only]

Changed texture to better match its item form.
Painting

Changed the back texture to match the new plank textures.
World generation
Increased world height.
Ore distribution changes.
Ore distribution
Changed ore generation of all ores making them have a spread value like lapis lazuli ore. Some still retain a linear generation alongside a spread generation.
Coal ore attempts to generate twice: once, evenly between an altitude of Y=136 and Y=256; and as a spread, peaking at an altitude of Y=96 and generating between an altitude of Y=0 and Y=192.
Copper ore generates between Y=-16 and Y=112, generating the most at Y=48 and like all other ores, uses spread. It peaks at Y=48. Bigger blobs of copper ore generate in dripstone caves.
Iron ore attempts to generate three times: once as a spread peaking at an altitude of Y=256, generating above Y=80; another as a spread peaking at Y=16 and generating with a minimum height of Y=-24 and a maximum height of Y=57, and a smaller one spreading evenly between the altitudes of Y=-64 and Y=-32.
Gold ore generates between the altitudes of Y=-64 and Y=32, peaking at Y=-16. Also, extra gold generates below Y=-48. The extra gold that generates in the badlands biome was increased, with a top height limit from Y=79 to Y=256, and increased number of blobs.
Lapis lazuli ore attempts to generate twice: once, as a spread between the altitudes of Y=32 and Y=-32, peaking at an altitude of 0; and evenly between the altitudes of Y=64 and Y=-64, generating buried like ancient debris.
Redstone ore attempts to generate twice: once, evenly between an altitude of Y=15 and Y=-64; and as a spread, peaking at an altitude of -64 and generating below an altitude of Y=-32.
Diamond ore now generate as a spread, generating below Y=16 and peaking at depths near Y=-64.
Emerald ore generates above Y=-16 as a spread, peaking at Y=256 and decreasing in quantity as the altitude decreases.
The size and positioning of diorite, andesite, granite, gravel and dirt has been tweaked - there are larger blobs of these blocks but they're fewer and further apart.
Diorite, andesite and granite generate less commonly above Y=60.
Biomes
Some biomes have been renamed:

Old name
New name

Tall Birch Forest
Old Growth Birch Forest

Giant Tree Taiga
Old Growth Pine Taiga

Giant Spruce Taiga
Old Growth Spruce Taiga

Snowy Tundra
Snowy Plains

Jungle Edge
Sparse Jungle

Stone Shore
Stony Shore

Mountains
Windswept Hills

Wooded Mountains
Windswept Forest

Gravelly Mountains
Windswept Gravelly Hills

Shattered Savanna
Windswept Savanna

Wooded Badlands Plateau
Wooded Badlands

Since the terrain height is no longer controlled by biomes, most of the height variant sub-biomes, along with previously unused biome variants have been removed from the game and had their code merged into the main biome:

Removed biomes

Badlands Plateau

Bamboo Jungle Hills

Birch Forest Hills

Dark Forest Hills

Deep Warm Ocean

Desert Hills

Desert Lakes

Giant Spruce Taiga Hills

Giant Tree Taiga Hills

Gravelly Mountains+

Jungle Hills

Modified Badlands Plateau

Modified Jungle

Modified Jungle Edge

Modified Wooded Badlands Plateau

Mountain Edge

Mushroom Field Shore

Shattered Savanna Plateau

Snowy Mountains

Snowy Taiga Hills

Snowy Taiga Mountains

Swamp Hills

Taiga Hills

Taiga Mountains

Tall Birch Hills

Wooded Hills

As a result of this change:
All deserts are now eligible for village and desert pyramid generation.
All taigas are now eligible for village and pillager outpost generation.
All swamps are now eligible for swamp hut generation.
All snowy taigas are now eligible for igloo generation.
Worlds made in previous versions that generated these biomes convert them into their default variants.
Badlands

Now can generate in mountain peaks.
Red sand generates a bit higher.
Red sandstone now generates naturally once again.
Beach

Now are generally wider.
In some places there is a chance where no beaches generate at all, to provide some variation
Stony shore

Now generate with strips of gravel.
Can generate alongside any biome instead of just windswept hills.
Features
Fossil

Now replaces coal ore with deepslate diamond ore when it's on the deepslate layer.
Spring

Lava springs can now generate amid calcite, dirt, snow block, powder snow and packed ice.
These changes allow lava springs to generate in mountains and snowy terrain.
Water springs can now generate amid dirt and snow block, and don't generate higher than Y=192.
Swamp oak

Now able to generate in slightly deeper water than before.
Structures
Mineshaft

Now generate with oak logs as pillars, and oak fences with chains as a means for support.
Village

Now slightly more spread out.
Now generate in meadows.
Further revisions
Java Edition
1.17

1.17.1 made changes to some game mechanics and fixes bugs.
1.18

1.18.1 made minor changes to fog and fixed bugs.
1.18.2 added the /placefeature command, made significant changes to tags and custom world generation, and fixed bugs.
Bedrock Edition
1.17

1.17.1 was released exclusively on Nintendo Switch to fix a bug in which players weren't able to connect to any server.
1.17.2 was released to fix bugs related to world generation.
1.17.10 added candles, brought additional parity with Java Edition, experimental features for 1.18.0, and fixed bugs.
1.17.11 was released to fix some critical bugs.
1.17.30 was released to bring additional parity with Java Edition, new features behind the experimental toggle, and fixed bugs.
1.17.32 was released to fix some critical bugs after the release of 1.17.30.
1.17.33 was released exclusively on Amazon Fire to fix a bug in which players weren't able to launch the game.
1.17.34 was released to fix a bug in which owned content did not appear in the inventory after redeeming a retail code.
1.17.40 was released to fix bugs and add more features behind the experimental toggle.
1.17.41 was released to fix some critical bugs after the release of 1.17.40.
1.18

1.18.1 and 1.18.2 were released to fix some critical bugs after the release of 1.18.0.
1.18.10 was released to bring more parity with Java Edition and fix bugs.
1.18.11 was released exclusively on Nintendo Switch to fix bugs.
1.18.12 was released to fix bugs.
1.18.30 was released to add new Create New World UI, more parity with Java Edition such as 64-bit seeds, hunger changes, and fixes bugs.
1.18.31 was released to add the Spectator mode experimental toggle and fix bugs.
1.18.32 was released exclusively on Android, Amazon Fire, and Nintendo Switch to improve game performance.
1.18.33 was released exclusively on Nintendo Switch to fix bugs.
Promotions
Caves & Cliffs Explorers
Main article: Caves & Cliffs Explorers
Shortly after Part II, a tie-in world was released on the Marketplace. The release involves exploring the ruins of a destroyed village, helping various characters rebuild the town using new features from the update. Throughout the world are guest appearances from YouTubers such as Logdotzip and BigB, using the same character designs featured in the YouTube Creators Skin Pack. The map went on to be promoted itself, with a special animation detailing its backstory.

A Caves & Cliffs Story
Main article: A Caves & Cliffs Story
Coinciding with the release of Part I was a trilogy of short stories published on Minecraft.net. Written by Sofia Dankis, the trilogy touches on various features introduced in the update, including goats, axolotls, and lush caves.

Videos
Trailer
Main articles: Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I - Official Trailer and Minecraft Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II - Official Trailer
A trailer for Part I was released on June 8, 2021.

Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I - Official Trailer (view on YouTube)





 

A trailer for Part II was released on November 30, 2021.

Minecraft Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II - Official Trailer (view on YouTube)





 

Showcases
Videos made by slicedlime:

Java Edition
1.17

What's New in Minecraft 1.17 - The Caves and Cliffs Update Part I? (view on YouTube)





 

Technical News in Minecraft Java Edition 1.17 - The Caves & Cliffs Update Part I (view on YouTube)





 

Custom World Changes in Minecraft Java Edition 1.17 (view on YouTube)





 

1.18

What's New in Minecraft 1.18 - The Caves & Cliffs Update Part II? (view on YouTube)





 

Where Are The Diamonds? Ore Distribution in Minecraft 1.18 - The Caves & Cliffs Update (view on YouTube)





 

Texture Updates in Minecraft 1.18 - The Caves & Cliffs Update (view on YouTube)





 

Technical News in Minecraft 1.18 (view on YouTube)





 

Other

Caves, Cliffs & Other Updates: How We Make Minecraft - Episode 5 (view on YouTube)





 

The Secrets of Minecraft: Caves & Cliffs Part I (view on YouTube)





 

Dev Diaries: World Generation (view on YouTube)





 

Dev Diaries: Caves & Cliffs Mobs (view on YouTube)





 

Dev Diaries: Community Collaborations (view on YouTube)





 

Caves & Cliffs Special: Blocks (view on YouTube)





 

Caves & Cliffs Special: Mobs (view on YouTube)





 

Minecraft 1.18 - But what happens to my old world? (view on YouTube)





 

Minecraft 1.18 - Candles cancel creeper parties?! (view on YouTube)





 

Soundtrack

Lena Raine - "Stand Tall" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "Left to Bloom" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "Ancestry" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "Wending" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "Infinite Amethyst" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "One More Day" (view on YouTube)





 

Lena Raine - "otherside" (view on YouTube)





 

Kumi Tanioka - "Floating Dream" (view on YouTube)





 

Kumi Tanioka - "Comforting Memories" (view on YouTube)





 

Kumi Tanioka - "An Ordinary Day" (view on YouTube)





 

Quotes
“Go underwater to team up with the axolotl and meet the glow squid. Tread carefully on higher ground because the goats might ram you!„ — Minecraft.net on Caves & Cliffs: Part I
“Explore bigger mountains, caves, and biomes along with an increased world height and updated terrain generation in the Caves & Cliffs Update.„ — Minecraft.net on Caves & Cliffs: Part II
Trivia
Mojang Studios employees explored real caves to research for the update. This helped give inspiration and ideas for the update, including for the noodle caves (previously called mesh caves).
Henrik Kniberg also recalled memories of past visits to caves around the world.
The art style of the concept art for Caves & Cliffs was inspired by the concept art of the Adventure Time episode Diamonds and Lemons, which was a crossover with Minecraft.
Archaeology, bundles, the deep dark biome, sculk blocks, the warden, and goat horns were originally planned to be added in this update, but were delayed to a later version when the update was split. Sculk, the deep dark, the warden, and goat horns were added in The Wild Update, archaeology was added in the Trails & Tales update, and bundles were added in the Bundles of Bravery drop.
Gallery



			Caves & Cliffs release logo



			Caves & Cliffs: Part I artwork



			Caves & Cliffs: Part I artwork without logo



			Caves & Cliffs: Part II artwork



			Caves & Cliffs: Part II artwork without logo



			The reveal of the Caves & Cliffs: Part II artwork



			The logo used at Minecraft Live 2020, which uses the former "Minecraft" logo, also used in promotional images for Caves & Cliffs: Part II (see above)


Mojang images



			A view of the lush caves



			Big dripleaves



			A player boating inside of a spaghetti cave, showcasing a subterranean water feature.



			A path of glow lichen in a cave



			A large underground lake in a cheese cave



			One of the only pictures of a mesh cave



			In an image from a developer, a likely prototype for calcite strips can be seen as well as tuff strips that never ended up being implemented



			The full screenshot that the previous image was cropped from with a prominent floating village



			A view of the dripstone caves



			Multiple goats, showcasing jump height



			Inside of an amethyst geode



			A copper roof house with weathered copper



			Lightning striking a lightning rod



			A few axolotls in a lush cave



			An axolotl army attacking an elder guardian



			Lush caves



			A leaked screenshot showing "waterlogged-rail" in the title



			Several Caves & Cliffs features around a cozy cabin


Concept artwork



			Lush caves and its vegetation



			Lush caves



			Lush caves at night



			Dripstone caves and pointed dripstone



			Lake caves



			Flooded caves



			Axolotl and the warden



			"Cutie in a Bucket" - concept art of axolotl



			School of axolotls



			"Scale of Cuteness". Concept art of the axolotl, goat, and the warden



			Concept art of underground crystals, which was later reiterated into the amethyst geode



			Concept art of a crystal cave, which was later reiterated into the amethyst geode


Official artwork



			Goat and powder snow



			Copper ore and copper block



			Amethyst and spyglass



			Axolotl



			Original artwork from where the individual assets came


Infographics



			Revised cave generation



			Changes to ore distribution and introduction of ore veins



			Aquifers providing local water levels



			Changes to world height from Y=-64 up to Y=320



			3D biome distribution



			Biomes now adapting to any type of terrain generations



			World blending between old and new chunks



			Mob spawning changes


References

 https://youtu.be/2cxUNoWNy50?t=2049

 "I've been at Mojang for a year now. This year has been absolutely bizarre, but I couldn't be happier to be working on the game of my dreams.I can't believe I get to work on the Cave Update."  – @kingbdogz  on X (formerly Twitter), January 7, 2021

 "Caves & Cliffs: Part I Out Today on Bedrock"     by Matt Gartzke  – Minecraft.net, June 8, 2021.

 "Grab your nearest calendar and start circling with a vengeance: Caves & Cliffs: Part I arrives June 8th on both Java and Bedrock!"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), May 31, 2021

 "Minecraft: Caves & Cliffs Update FAQ"   .

 "Caves & Cliffs Update Part II is coming"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, November 17, 2021.

 "Minecraft Live: The Recap"     – Minecraft.net, October 3, 2020.

 "A Caves & Cliffs Announcement"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 14, 2021

 "My understanding is that Experimental Features only exist in Beta releases."  – @MattGartzke  on X (formerly Twitter), December 2, 2020

 "Goats are still in the latest beta, they just can't be accessed from a full version, only betas."  – @MattGartzke  on X (formerly Twitter), December 2, 2020

 "New world generation in Bedrock available for testing"     – Minecraft.net, July 13, 2021.

 "Yes, and yes. Was hoping to do a larger field trip to different countries with interesting caves, but covid got in the way so we had stay more local."  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), October 23, 2020

 "Mesh caves were inspired by this field trip."  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), October 21, 2020

 "I used to travel a lot in the past though (before becoming aware of climate change), and I like visiting caves, so I dug up memories from fascinating cave visits in Spain, South Africa, New Zealand, and British Virgin Isles and some other places."  – @henrikkniberg  on X (formerly Twitter), October 23, 2020

 "Definitely one of my biggest inspirations! My favorite show + favorite game - it shaped a lot how I approached concepts for Minecraft artstyle"  – @cookiecat_9  on X (formerly Twitter), October 4, 2020

 "A Caves & Cliffs Announcement"  – Minecraft on YouTube, April 14, 2021

External links
Minecraft Caves and Cliffs Update | Minecraft (Archive)
Navigation