This article is about the set of blocks.   For other uses, see Chain (disambiguation).

All chains
A chain is a metallic decoration block made from ingots and nuggets.

Contents

1 Variants
2 Obtaining

2.1 Crafting

3 Usage

3.1 Crafting ingredient

4 Block states
5 History

5.1 Java Edition
5.2 Bedrock Edition

6 Issues
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Renders

9 Issues
10 References
11 Navigation

Variants
There are 9 variants of chain:

Copper Chain
Unoxidized Copper Chain (Waxed)
Exposed Copper Chain (Waxed)
Weathered Copper Chain (Waxed)
Oxidized Copper Chain (Waxed)
Iron Chain
Obtaining
Crafting
Both iron and regular unwaxed, unoxidized copper chains have the same crafting recipe format, using two nuggets and one ingot of the same type.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Iron Nugget or Copper Nugget +Iron Ingot or Copper Ingot

Usage
Chains can be used to suspend bells, hanging signs, and all variants of lanterns (normal, soul, copper), as the chain texture connects to the chain of the lantern seamlessly as if it were part of it, and it connects the hanging sign chains together. Chains do not require a supporting block to be placed whether it is on the top, next to it or at the bottom. It can exist completely free-standing in mid air and it can be rotated. Chains connect horizontally or vertically, but not across different orientations (so a chain with N orientation does not connect to a chain with E orientation in the adjacent block). Horizontal chains one block above a surface may be walked over. Horizontal chains two blocks above a surface prevent players from traveling past them. Vertical chains block travel if targeted directly, but may be skirted.
Chains can be walked on.
Chains can be pushed by pistons without being broken.
Comparators can read containers through chains, despite them being non-conductive.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Crafting ingredient

Name
Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Hanging Sign

Iron Chain +Matching Stripped Log or Block of Stripped Bamboo or Matching Stripped Stem

6666666666666

Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  axisy
xThe chain is oriented east–west.
yThe chain is oriented vertically.
zThe chain is oriented north–south.
waterloggedfalsefalsetrueWhether or not there's water in the same place as this chain.
Bedrock Edition:

  NameMetadata Bits
  Default value
  Allowed valuesValues forMetadata Bits
  Description
  pillar_axis0x10x2y
x1The chain is oriented east–west.y0The chain is oriented vertically.z2The chain is oriented north–south.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1620w16a
Added iron chains, which are currently just called "Chain".20w18a
Chains are now waterloggable.1.21.925w32a
Added copper chains.

The original chain block has been renamed to "Iron Chain" to distinguish it from copper chains.

Hanging signs can now be crafted with any type of chain.25w35a
Hanging signs can now only be crafted with iron chains again.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.16.0beta 1.16.0.57
Added iron chains, which are currently just called "Chain".1.21.111Preview 1.21.110.23
Added copper chains.

The original chain block has been renamed to "Iron Chain" to distinguish it from copper chains.
Issues
Issues relating to "Chain" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
A vertical chain, being a solid, but not a full block, allows for many sizes of mobs and players to pass alongside each piece horizontally.
Chains are the only block type whose collision box does not align with the pixel grid; its width is 3 pixels, centered on the middle of the axis it is placed on, thus putting each of its collision faces 3/32 of a block away from its center.
Gallery
Renders



			Iron Chain



			Copper Chain



			Exposed Copper Chain



			Weathered Copper Chain



			Oxidized Copper Chain


Issues
Issues relating to "Chain" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

References

 MC-178791 – resolved as "Invalid".

Navigation