This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Change your game, your way!





Type

Cinematic trailer

Subjects

Add-ons

Productioncompanies

Brokendoll

Date

May 21, 2024

Length

1:42

{
    "title": "Change your game, your way!",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Cinematic trailer",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Add-ons article, displayed as Add-ons)",
            "label": "Subjects"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Brokendoll article, displayed as Brokendoll)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 21, 2024",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "1:42",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Change your game, your way! is an animated trailer, promoting the introduction of add-ons to the Marketplace, demonstrated by the heroes of the game using several items from illustrative examples of content.
Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Quotes
3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Screenshots

5 References
6 External links
7 Navigation

Summary
Steve, Alex, Makena, and Kai are standing in a plains biome, gazing upon a golden portal. Steve decides to tower up to investigate the portal, using oak planks and a stick to prod it. Upon poking it, a lion pops out, wearing a blue hat. Kai and Makena inspect the lion, seemingly finding it cute, but it ultimately turns hostile and begins chasing them. While Steve and Alex watch their friends get attacked, more portals begin to appear, dropping additional entities such as cars, an alien in a UFO, a rainbow, and a unicorn.
While Kai runs away in fear, Sunny decides to be nice and feeds the lion raw mutton, taming it. Later, Sunny begins mining for ores, taking the lion along. While mining, Sunny's iron pickaxe transforms into one from an add-on, enabling them to mine in a 3×3 radius. The scene cuts to Noor and Ari in a dripstone cave, blinded by darkness. Noor lights a torch, discovering they're surrounded by skeletons. However, a golden portal appears above them, gifting them armor and items that allow them to defeat the skeletons. Meanwhile, Efe is swimming near a coral reef, and gets discovered by several drowned. They swim some more, summoning scuba gear, and then a whale, which splashes the drowned away.
In a desert, Zuri is placing several poppies. Furniture and plants begin to appear around the house Zuri is constructing. Zuri then places down a decorative flamingo, before a bomb drops several hundred blocks away. Zuri lights the bomb, and gets away using a jetpack.

Characters

Alex
CharacterSprite alien.png: Sprite image for alien in MinecraftAlien
Ari
Camel
Chicken
Drowned
Efe
CharacterSprite efe's-dragon.png: Sprite image for efe's-dragon in MinecraftEfe's Dragon
CharacterSprite hamster.png: Sprite image for hamster in MinecraftHamster
Kai
CharacterSprite lion.png: Sprite image for lion in MinecraftLion
Makena
Noor
CharacterSprite octopus.png: Sprite image for octopus in MinecraftOctopus
Pig
Skeleton
Steve
Sunny
Tropical Fish
CharacterSprite unicorn.png: Sprite image for unicorn in MinecraftUnicorn
Whale
White Rabbit
White Sheep
Zuri
Settings

Cave
Coral Reef
 Crater
Desert
Minecraft Marketplace
Plains
Ocean
Sunflower Plains
Warm Ocean
AreaSprite zuri's-modern-house.png: Sprite image for zuri's-modern-house in MinecraftZuri's Modern House
Quotes
“The add-ons catalog is growing, which means many more ways to change your game, your way – even on consoles! Add-ons are the easiest way to modify your worlds with custom blocks, items, mobs, recipes, and other content. Try them out with Marketplace Pass or download directly from Minecraft Marketplace. Pick up the free party supplies pack by Oreville Studios and let's get this add-ons party started!„ — YouTube description
“Imagine a world of add-ons with glittery TNT explosives, a magical wizard's staff, or a roaring lion that can be charmed with a bit of steak. 🦁„ — Brokendoll
Trivia
Among the ores Sunny mines is what appears to be a ruby ore, represented by a red recolor of the emerald ore texture.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Promotional artwork for add-ons and the video.


Screenshots



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.






References

 "Let's dive into the world of Minecraft Add-Ons with this new trailer, showcasing exciting Minecraft Marketplace content."     by Brokendoll  – LinkedIn, May 28, 2024.

External links
"Introducing add-ons"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, February 2, 2024.
"Let's Play: Animal add-ons"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, April 4, 2024.
Navigation