Chaos Cubed

Release date

June 16, 2026

Version(s)

Java Edition 26.2
Bedrock Edition 26.30

Preliminaryname(s)

Drop 2 of 2026

◄◄ Tiny Takeover

Third Drop 2026 ►►

{
    "title": "Chaos Cubed",
    "images": [
        "26.2 banner.jpg",
        "Bedrock 26.30 PatchNotes.jpg"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "June 16, 2026",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Java Edition 26.2 article, displayed as Java Edition 26.2)\n* (link to Bedrock Edition 26.30 article, displayed as Bedrock Edition 26.30)",
            "label": "Version(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Drop 2 of 2026",
            "label": "Preliminary<br>name(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\"><span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">◄</span>◄ [[Tiny Takeover]]</div>\n\n</div><div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[Third Drop 2026]] <span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">►</span>►</div>\n</div>"
}
Key artwork



 There are guides for this update! 
See Java Edition guides/Chaos Cubed and Bedrock Edition guides/Chaos Cubed for a guide to all of the new features introduced in Chaos Cubed.

Chaos Cubed is a game drop released on June 16, 2026 as Java Edition 26.2 and Bedrock Edition 26.30. It focuses on the sulfur caves, a cave biome that is home to sulfur cubes, along with the new sulfur and cinnabar blocks with their respective variants. It was announced along with its name at Minecraft Live – March 2026.
Experimental features for the update were released prior to the finalized release as part of Bedrock Edition 26.20.

Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Blocks
1.2 Items
1.3 Mobs
1.4 World generation

1.4.1 Biomes
1.4.2 Features

1.5 Music

2 Changes

2.1 Blocks
2.2 Mobs

3 Further revisions

3.1 Bedrock Edition

4 Promotions

4.1 Downloadable content
4.2 Community Challenges
4.3 Chaos Cubed: Pixel Party

5 Videos
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Official artwork
7.2 Screenshots
7.3 Mojang screenshots

8 Notes
9 References
10 Navigation

Additions
Blocks
Cinnabar block set:

Red-colored rocks that are found in the sulfur caves.
 Cinnabar
 Cinnabar stairs
 Cinnabar slab
 Cinnabar wall
 Polished cinnabar
 Polished cinnabar stairs
 Polished cinnabar slab
 Polished cinnabar wall
 Cinnabar bricks
 Cinnabar brick stairs
 Cinnabar brick slab
 Cinnabar brick wall
 Chiseled cinnabar
Sulfur block set:

Yellow-colored crystalline blocks that are found in the sulfur caves.
 Sulfur
 Sulfur stairs
 Sulfur slab
 Sulfur wall
 Polished sulfur
 Polished sulfur stairs
 Polished sulfur slab
 Polished sulfur wall
 Sulfur bricks
 Sulfur brick stairs
 Sulfur brick slab
 Sulfur brick wall
 Chiseled sulfur
 Potent sulfur
A version of sulfur that generates underwater in sulfur pools and springs.
Can be crafted using 9 sulfur blocks.
When placed underwater, it emits bubbles and a cloud of noxious gas at the surface.
Players and mobs get Nausea when they enter water that is near or touching the noxious gas.
When above a magma block, it creates a geyser.A geyser erupting in a sulfur spring
The geyser erupts at roughly 50-second intervals, shooting a plume of water particles upward and applying an upward impulse to entities above it for 4–5 seconds.
Eruption and cooldown timings are derived from the block's position and do not change if the block is replaced.
The size of the water plume is dependent on the amount of water blocks above the potent sulfur.
Can trigger continuously when a lava source is placed underneath.
Does not give nausea in that state.
 Sulfur spike
A block that generates as stalactites and stalagmites in the sulfur caves.
Grows when hanging to a sulfur block.
Functions similarly to pointed dripstone, except it does not increase fall damage when fallen on.
Unlike pointed dripstone, when water or lava is placed on the block above where the spike is hanging from, it does not drip the liquid from its point.
Can be used to craft a sulfur block.
Items
 "Bounce" music disc

Obtained from minecarts with chests in mineshafts that are located in sulfur caves.
The music was composed by fingerspit.
 Bucket of sulfur cube

Obtained by picking a sulfur cube using an empty bucket.
Can be used to transport the sulfur cube to a new location.
Includes what block is in the sulfur cube, if any.
 Sulfur cube spawn egg

Used to spawn a sulfur cube.
Mobs
  Sulfur cube

A passive slime-like mob that spawns in sulfur caves.
When killed, it splits into 2 small cubes, like other slime-like mobs.
Unlike the slime and magma cube, the small versions can grow up into the large version, like how a baby mob works, and the small cubes' growth can be sped up with slimeballs.
Because of this, they can be tempted with slimeballs or fed a golden dandelion.
It is attracted to the dropped item form of most full blocks. The cube can pick up a block, or a player can use a full block on the cube, causing the cube to absorb it into its body.
 In this state, they cannot move on their own and cannot be damaged by most sources. Instead, they are knocked back when attacked. They still take damage from some other sources, such as cramming‌[Java Edition  only], suffocating, and burning from fire or lava.
The knockback also depends on the damage that would have been dealt, with stronger attacks sending the cube further.
Can be leashed in that state.
Blocks can be swapped by feeding it.
Shearing it removes and drops the block, reverting back to normal.
Depending on the block, they behave differently when punched while immobile.
 Football/Regular: Medium speed, medium bounciness, medium ground friction and low air drag. (block example: grass block)
 Rubber ball/Bouncy: Fast speed, high bounciness, medium ground friction and low air drag. (block example: oak log)
 Golf ball/Fast flat: Fast speed, low bounciness, medium ground friction and low air drag. (block example: moss block)
Sinks underwater.
 Hockey puck/Fast sliding: Fast speed, no bounciness, low ground friction and low air drag. (block example: blue ice)
Sinks underwater.
 High resistance: Slow, low drag with low bounce with high friction, affects only soul sand and soul soil.
Sinks underwater.
 Beach ball/Light: Slow speed, high bounciness, medium ground friction and high air drag, affects only wools.
 Medicine ball/Slow flat: Slow speed, low bounciness, medium ground friction and medium air drag. (block example: block of iron)
Sinks underwater.
 Curling stone/Slow sliding: Slow speed, no bounciness, low ground friction and low air drag. (block example: red mushroom block)
Sinks underwater.
 Sticky: Fast speed and low air drag like a golf ball, but sticks with extremely high ground friction and no bounce to simulate stickiness, affects only the honeycomb block.
Sinks underwater.
 Explosive: Medium speed, medium bounciness, and medium ground friction like a football, but with high air drag, affects only TNT.
Can be ignited in all manners a TNT block can be ignited, and can also be ignited by magma blocks and firework explosions.
Is primed for 6 seconds until it explodes, unlike the TNT block, which takes 4 seconds to explode.
In that state, it cannot be sheared, picked up in a bucket, or damaged in any way.
 Slow bouncy: Slow speed, high bounciness, medium friction and medium air drag. (block example: stone)
Sinks underwater.
 Hot: Same properties as a football, but damages entities on contact, affects only the magma block.
Can ignite an explosive sulfur cube on touch.
Frost Walker grants immunity to its damage.
World generation
Biomes
Sulfur caves

A cave biome composed of sulfur, cinnabar and sulfur spikes.
Sulfur cubes spawn here.
Cave spiders spawn here in place of regular spiders.
This makes the first time cave spiders are able to spawn naturally (outside of monster spawners and trial spawners).
Sulfur pools also generate here.
On rare occasions it can generate on the surface, forming sulfur "lands".
Features
 Sulfur pool

Greenish pools that generate in sulfur caves.
Consists of a body of water surrounded by sulfur blocks and cinnabar with potent sulfur generating at the bottom.
 Sulfur spike

Generates as clusters of sulfur spikes.
 Sulfur spring

A rare pool that contains sulfur, sulfur spikes, magma blocks underneath the potent sulfur, surrounded with cinnabar, granite and tuff.
Generates on the Overworld’s surface as a visual indicator to a sulfur cave below.
Generates in various sizes, from small to extra large.
Occasionally forms a geyser every ~45 seconds
Music
Main article: Minecraft: Chaos Cubed (Original Game Soundtrack)
Added 5 new music tracks
and a new music disc, composed by fingerspit:

"Memories"
"Ebb"
"Home"
"Shores"
"Nightly"
Music Disc "Bounce"
Changes
Blocks
Dispenser

Can now dispense a block into a sulfur cube.
It can also remove a block from a sulfur cube using shears.
Sculk sensor and calibrated sculk sensor

Now detects geysers.
Mobs
Wandering trader

Can now sell two sulfur spikes for an emerald.
Further revisions
Bedrock Edition
26.31 was released to fix bugs related to 26.30.
26.32 was released to fix bugs related to 26.30.
26.33 was released to fix a bug related to 26.30.
26.34 was released for PlayStation and Nintendo Switch only to fix bugs related to 26.30.
26.35 was released for Nintendo Switch only to fix some bugs.
26.40 was a minor update that fixed bugs and added experimental features for the third drop of 2026.
26.41/26.42 was released for Windows and Nintendo Switch only to fix bugs related to 26.40.
26.44 was released to fix bugs related to 26.40.
26.45 is an upcoming hotfix to fix bugs related to 26.40.
Promotions
Downloadable content
See also: Chaos Cubed (skin pack)

Artwork for the character creator items
Artwork for the skin files
To promote the release of the game drop, players in Bedrock Edition get three Character Creator items for free available on the Marketplace. Players in Java Edition immediately receive a skin pack that contains three skins.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Icon

Render

Brawler Jersey

Tops

Epic

Builder Jersey

Rare

Rancher Jersey

Epic

Community Challenges
Artwork for the character creator items.
Two community challenges were announced on June 17, 2026, to promote the release of the game drop. The first challenge began on June 19 and ended on June 24. The second challenge began on June 26 and ended on July 7, 2026. Players in Bedrock Edition get rewarded Character Creator items, add-on, and a world download.

Character Creators Rewards

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Obtaining

Icon

Render

Brawler Helmet

Headwear

Rare

Require players to feed 10 million sulfur cubes with TNT.

Builder Helmet

Epic

Require players to place down 20 million sulfur blocks.

Sulfur Cube Head

Uncommon

Require players to spawn 50 million sulfur cubes.

Additional Rewards

Name

Image

Type

Obtaining

Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube

Add-On

Require players to completing either of the challenges shown above.

Chaos Cubed: The Game Show

World

Require 250,000 players to use the Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cubes add-on.

Chaos Cubed: Pixel Party
See also: Chaos Cubed: Pixel Party

Chaos Cubed: Pixel Party is an official free add-on available on the Marketplace.

Videos
Main article: Chaos Cubed (trailer)

















Trivia
In the key art, the hoe that Alex is holding is facing the wrong way.
Gallery
Main article: Chaos Cubed/Gallery
Official artwork



			Key art



			Expanded key art



			Release date banner



			Chaos Cubed playstyles



			A magma block sulfur cube



			A stripped cherry wood sulfur cube



			A TNT sulfur cube


Screenshots



			In-game notification listing new features in Chaos Cubed. Note that parties actually got introduced in 26.20.



			A small pop-up



			An in-game feedback poll about the game drop in Bedrock Edition



			Toast notification about the drop


Mojang screenshots



			Ari feeding sulfur cubes



			Zuri and Noor around sulfur cubes



			Sulfur cubes in a sulfur cave



			Kai, Sunny and Makena next to a geyser



			Noor playing with a TNT sulfur cube



			A fox being lifted by a geyser



			Magma sulfur cubes in a sulfur cave



			Magma sulfur cubes near a bursting spring



			A bursting spring


Notes

 These rewards must be redeemed by June 16 2027.

References

 "Instead of blocking it, we decided to embrace the fact that they can peek through the surface and include sulfur cave features on the surface as well. Its a really rare occurence, so we thought it would be best if it feels like a rare find for the players. After the fix the area in 934598 seed should look like on the attached image"

 "The Chaos Continues"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, June 17, 2026.

Navigation