This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.Note: Please improve page with more information.





This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube Add-On

Developer(s)

Blockception

Price

Free

Release date

June 24, 2026

Website page

Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube Add-On in Minecraft Marketplace

Article

"Community Challenge: Chaos Sparks"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube Add-On",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Blockception article, displayed as Blockception)",
            "label": "Developer(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 24, 2026",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp/minecraft/chaos-cubed:-cursed-cube-add--on/5d93dc9a-0dbf-467e-95d2-50c61f5eff13 Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube Add-On in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/community-challenge-chaos-sparks \"Community Challenge: Chaos Sparks\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Chaos Cubed: Cursed Cube Add-On is an official free add-on promoting Chaos Cubed available on the Marketplace, featuring additional archetypes for the sulfur cube. It was released as a reward for one of the community challenges.

Key art
Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Blocks
1.2 Items
1.3 Mobs
1.4 Sulfur cube archetypes

2 Quotes
3 History
4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Promotional images

5 References
6 Navigation

Additions
Blocks
File:CCCC Geyser Pod.png Geyser Pod

Dug up by the sulfur sniffer.
Creates a temporary geyser when an entity walks over it.
File:CCCC Sulfur Bloom.png Sulfur Bloom

Dug up by the sulfur sniffer.
Inflicts entities that walk over it with poison.
File:CCCC Sulfur Sniffer Egg.png Sulfur Sniffer Egg

Created when a sulfur cube absorbs a sniffer egg.
Hatches into a sulfur sniffer.
Hatches faster on sulfur and potent sulfur.
Items
File:CCCC Guide Book.png Guide Book

Crafted with a block of sulfur and a book and granted at world creation.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Sulfur +Book

Shows details about the add-on.
Mobs
File:CCCC Sulfur Sniffer.png Sulfur Sniffer

Hatches from a sulfur sniffer egg.
Sulfur cube archetypes
File:CCCC Jeb Cube.gif Jeb Cube

A sulfur cube named "jeb_" that has absorbed a wool block.
Cycles through all wool colors.
File:CCCC Mossy Cube.png Mossy Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed a moss block.
Creates a small patch of moss and moss carpet when it bounces.
File:CCCC Snowy Cube.png Snowy Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed a snow block.
Creates a small patch of snow when it bounces.
File:CCCC Bee Cube.png Iron Bar Cube

A sulfur cube that absorbed iron bars.
Makes a metal pipe sound whenever it hits a block.
File:CCCC Bee Cube.png Bee Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed a bee nest.
Spawns bees when it bounces.
File:CCCC Geyser Pod.png Shulker Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed a shulker shell.
When hit, both the sulfur cube and the attacker get levitation.
File:CCCC Chorus Cube.png Chorus Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed chorus fruit.
Teleports when hit.
File:CCCC Chest Cube.png Chest Cube

A sulfur cube that has absorbed a chest.
Invisible until hit, appearing as a normal chest.
When hit, it teleports the attacker into a large chest structure.
Quotes
“The Sulfur Cubes are multiplying! Meet new bizarre cube variants packed with surprises, from helpful oddities to outright menaces. Discover each cube's unique personality, uncover new plants, and raise the ancient Sulfur Sniffer!„ — Marketplace description
History



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Gallery



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Official artwork



			Key art



			Promotion



			Panorama


Promotional images



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

References

 "Community Challenge: Chaos Sparks"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, June 19, 2026.

Navigation