This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Chaos Cubed (trailer)





Type

Mojang cinematic

Subjects

Chaos Cubed

Productioncompanies

Brikk Animation

Date

June 16, 2026

Length

0:55

◄ Tiny Takeover

{
    "title": "Chaos Cubed (trailer)",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang cinematic article, displayed as Mojang cinematic)",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Chaos Cubed article, displayed as Chaos Cubed)",
            "label": "Subjects"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Brikk Animation article, displayed as Brikk Animation)",
            "label": "Production<br>companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 16, 2026",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "0:55",
            "label": "Length"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">◄ [[Tiny Takeover (trailer)|Tiny Takeover]]</div>"
}

Chaos Cubed (stylized in all caps) is the official trailer for Chaos Cubed, which shows players interacting with sulfur cubes.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters
1.2 Settings

2 Trivia
3 Gallery

3.1 Mojang images

4 References
5 Navigation

Summary
A group of sulfur cubes jump around in a sulfur caves biome. Meanwhile on the surface, Makena, Steve, and Sunny dig a hole enthustiastically amongst a cluster of sulfur springs in hopes to find the caves beneath them. The three soon fall down, and Makena and Sunny survive after landing on a sulfur pool. However, Steve lands on the surface and dies, leaving behind blocks that seven sulfur cubes gather around and absorb. Suffering from nausea, Sunny emerges from the pool, watching Makena nudging the sulfur cubes as they jump in front of respawned Steve, who emerges from a tunnel. The scene then shifts high above plains where several sulfur cubes rain down onto Alex and Ari's sulfur cube-shaped sulfur and cinnabar house. They accidentally activate a piston mechanism that pushes Ari off the balcony. One of the cubes with an oak log inside lands on the ground and get spotted by Steve, before getting pushed by Sunny with their diamond sword to a Nether portal. Its force hurls Noor and a line of piglins in a Nether fortress into the air, before entering another portal and teleporting to a village. There, the sulfur cube bounces on a fletcher, then a nitwit, and Efe pushes it to bounce on a bell. The sulfur cube reaches Makena, who kicks it with a stone pickaxe toward Kai while fighting on floating cinnabar platforms with a chicken watching. Back to the plains, Steve and Alex watch the bouncing sulfur cubes and run away as an explosive cube primes before them. After it explodes, the white scene fades to the moment when the sulfur cubes gather around Steve's death site.

Characters

Alex
Ari
Bat
Black Horse
Brown Horse
Chicken
Cow
Efe
Ghast
Iron Golem
Jellie Cat
Kai
Makena
Noor
Pig
Piglin
Plains Fisherman
Plains Fletcher
Plains Mason
Plains Nitwit
Plains Shepherd
Skeleton
Steve
Sulfur Cube
Sunny
Settings

 Alex and Ari's House
Cherry Grove
Jagged Peaks
Nether Fortress
Nether Portal
Nether Wastes
Plains
Plains Village
Sulfur Caves
Sulfur Spring
Trivia
The pickaxe shown to be used by Steve does not drop when they die, despite it not having an enchantment glint (meaning that it could not have been enchanted with Curse of Vanishing).
Zuri is the only default skin to not appear in this trailer.
Gallery
Mojang images



			Key art


References

 "Official Minecraft videos - Collaborations with Mojang"     – YouTube.

Navigation