Items

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

How to obtain

Icon

Render

Red Rabbit Head

Headwear

Rare

Red Rabbits Challenge:Wearing the Red Rabbits Beanie, run over a Launch Pad 50 times while completing the Ace Race mini-game.

Orange Ocelot Head

Orange Ocelots Challenge:Wearing the Orange Ocelots Beanie, run over 100 Speed Boosts while completing the Ace Race mini-game.

Yellow Yak Head

Yellow Yaks Challenge:Wearing the Yellow Yaks Beanie, defeat 350 frozen enemies in the Meltdown mini-game.

Lime Llama Head

Lime Llamas Challenge:Wearing the Lime Llamas Beanie, give out 10 Gifting Boxes. You can purchase Gifting Boxes from the Toy Vendor in the main lobby.

Green Gecko Head

Green Geckos Challenge:Wearing the Green Geckos Beanie, paint 200 blocks in the “Copy the painting” challenge from the Grid Runners mini-game.

Cyan Coyote Head

Cyan Coyotes Challenge:Wearing the Cyan Coyotes Beanie, Collect 75 Coin Piles from the Sands of Time or Meltdown mini-game.

Aqua Axolotl Head

Aqua Axolotls Challenge:While wearing the Aqua Axolotls Beanie, find the Lost Pearl. It's hidden in a pool of water...

Blue Bat Head

Blue Bats Challenge:Wearing the Blue Bats Beanie, collect 100 sand from the Sands of Time mini-game.

Purple Panda Head

Purple Pandas Challenge:Wearing the Purple Pandas Beanie, place 200 ingredients in the "Bake the Cake" challenge from the Grid Runners mini-game.

Pink Parrot Head

Pink Parrots Challenge:Wearing the Pink Parrots Beanie, run through the Elytra Gates while completing the Ace Race mini-game 25 times.

MCC Crown

Mystery Cave Challenge:Complete all 7 of the painted puzzle challenges in the mysterious cave.

MCC 15th Year Cape

Cape

Legendary

Completing all of the challenges in the MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party.

Emotes

Name

Image

Rarity

How to obtain

Message

Special Message

Icon

Animation

Ride to Victory

Rare

Grind Runners Challenge:Complete a Grid Runners mini game!

@ is riding to victory!

@ is visualizing their success and riding to victory!

Victory Cartwheel

Sands of Time Challenge:Enter the Sands of Time mini-game, survive for 2 minutes, then successfully escape!

@ is doing a victorious cartwheel!

@ is performing a magnificent cartwheel!

Flying Chicken

Meltdown Challenge:Survive until the 3rd room in the Meltdown mini-game.

@ is flying like a chicken!

@ is flapping their wings and flying like a chicken!

Crowd Kisses

Ace Race Challenge:Complete a course of the Ace Race mini-game!

@ is sending kisses to the crowd!

@ is blowing kisses to their adoring fans!

 The Lost Pearl is located at the "Sprint" section of Grid Runner. It is at the left of the second-nearest pool to the entrance. It is a bubble with a spinning cube inside of it. You can collect it by hitting it.