Current capes
The capes listed here are currently available to be claimed by the public.

Name

Image

Rarity

How to obtain

Icon

Render

Moonlight Trail Cape

Legendary

This cape is given to players who attended the Minecraft Experience: Moonlight Trail.

Villager Rescue Cape‌

This cape is given to players who attended the Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue.

Mojang Studios Cape

This cape is given ONLY to Mojang Studios developers or employees.

The Pan Cape!

This cape is given to all players for free on Bedrock Edition.

Discontinued capes
The capes listed here are no longer available to be claimed by the public.

Name

Image

Rarity

How to obtain

Icon

Render

Builder Cape

Legendary

Part of the TwitchCon 2026 eventThis cape is given to players for doing the either following task:
Watching 5 minutes of any livestream on Twitch.
Watching 3 minutes of any livestream on TikTok.

Crafter Cape

Part of the TwitchCon 2026 event.This cape was given to players who attended the event in Rotterdam.

Zombie Horse Cape

This cape was given to players who completed the Mounts of Mayhem community challenge.

Copper Cape

This cape was given to players who completed the third challenge on the Copper Cape Quest.

Common Cape

Common

This cape was given to players by signing into a Microsoft account on Bedrock Edition from May 6, 2025 to May 5, 2026.

Yearn Cape

Legendary

Part of a promotion for A Minecraft Movie.This cape was given to players who completed all six challenges in the A Minecraft Movie Live Event.

Menace Cape

Part of a promotion for A Minecraft Movie.This cape was given to players for watching 3 minutes of any livestream on TikTok.

Home Cape

Part of a promotion for A Minecraft Movie.This cape was given to players for watching 3 minutes of any livestream on Twitch.

Mojang Office Cape

This cape was given to players who completed all five daily challenges in the Eerie Mojang Office Party event.

MCC 15th Year Cape

Part of the 15 Days of Minecraft event.This cape was given to players who completed all 15 challenges in the MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party event.

15th Anniversary Cape

Part of the 15 Days of Minecraft event.This cape was given to players to redeem it on the Minecraft official website.

Follower's Cape

Part of the 15 Days of Minecraft event.This cape was given to players for comment "minecraft" of any livestream on TikTok.

Purple Heart Cape

Part of the 15 Days of Minecraft event.This cape was given to players for watching 15 minutes of any livestream on Twitch.

Cherry Blossom Cape

This cape was given out to everyone who joined the 2023 Mob Vote Event.

Progress Pride Cape

This cape was given out to players who redeemed it for free on the Marketplace during the Pride 2023 Sale.

One Vanilla Cape

This cape was given out to players who bought both Java and Bedrock Editions for Windows before June 6, 2022.

The Pan Cape!(Duplicate)

Common

This cape was originally meant for Mojang employees. But due to an exploit, it was obtained by all players.

Founder's Cape

Legendary

This cape was given out to players who redeemed it for free on the Marketplace as a skin pack.

Unused capes
The capes listed here are used as placeholders and are not available to the public.

Name

Image

Rarity

Info

Cape

Epic

BOGO cape placeholder, now is the Twilight Tee.

Mojang Office Cape

Legendary

Placeholder version of the Mojang Office Cape.

Idaho Cape

Placeholder version of the Yearn Cape.

Andy Cape

Unused Placeholder Cape.

 "Minecraft Movie Build Challenge"     by Cristina Anderca  – Minecraft.net, May 30, 2026.

 "Join Minecraft at TwitchCon"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, May 19, 2026.

 "The Copper Cape Quest is almost over"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, October 13, 2025.

 Minecraft Launcher Mob Vote 2023 Information