For the skin pack, see Chase the Skies (skin pack).
 Not to be confused with Chase the Clouds.

Chase the Skies

Release date

June 17, 2025

Version(s)

Java Edition 1.21.6
Bedrock Edition 1.21.90

Preliminaryname(s)

Summer Drop 2025
Drop 2 2025
Game Drop 2 - 2025

◄◄ Spring to Life

The Copper Age ►►

{
    "title": "Chase the Skies",
    "images": [
        "1.21.6 banner.png",
        "Trio of happy ghasts.jpg"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "June 17, 2025",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*(link to Java Edition 1.21.6 article, displayed as Java Edition 1.21.6)\n*(link to Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 article, displayed as Bedrock Edition 1.21.90)",
            "label": "Version(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Summer Drop 2025\n*Drop 2 2025\n*Game Drop 2 - 2025",
            "label": "Preliminary<br>name(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\"><span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">◄</span>◄ [[Spring to Life]]</div>\n\n</div><div style=\"display:inline-block\">\n\n<div style=\"display:inline-block;padding:0 .4em\">[[The Copper Age]] <span style=\"margin-right:-0.35em\">►</span>►</div>\n</div>"
}

Key artwork



 There are guides for this update! 
See Java Edition guides/Chase the Skies and Bedrock Edition guides/Chase the Skies for a guide to all of the new features introduced in Chase the Skies.

Chase the Skies is a game drop released on June 17, 2025, as Java Edition 1.21.6 and Bedrock Edition 1.21.90. It introduces happy ghasts (which can be ridden with harnesses), improved mechanics for leads, craftable saddles, new background music, the "Tears" music disc, the player locator bar, as well as Vibrant Visuals in Bedrock Edition. The first features of this game drop were revealed at Minecraft LIVE – March 2025.
During development, the update was referred to as Summer Drop 2025 and Drop 2 2025 as the name of the Bedrock Edition experiment. The final name of the update was revealed in a minecraft.net article on June 1, 2025.
Experimental features for the update were released prior to the finalized release as part of Bedrock Edition 1.21.80.

Contents

1 Additions

1.1 Blocks
1.2 Items
1.3 Paintings
1.4 Mobs
1.5 Sounds
1.6 GUI
1.7 Graphics
1.8 Music

2 Changes

2.1 Blocks
2.2 Items
2.3 Mobs
2.4 Graphics

3 Further revisions

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Bedrock Edition

4 Promotions

4.1 Giveaway
4.2 Vibrant Memories
4.3 Take on Ghastastic Challenges

5 Videos
6 Gallery

6.1 Official artwork
6.2 Mojang screenshots
6.3 Merchandise images

7 Notes
8 References
9 Navigation

Additions
Blocks
 Dried ghast

Naturally generates next to Nether fossils in soul sand valleys.
Makes dry sounds when place on top of soul sand or soul soil.
Can be obtained through bartering with piglins.
Crafted with soul sand surrounded with 8 ghast tears.
 When put in water, the block's appearance changes 3 times depending on the time spent hydrated, changing its facial expression. After this, it becomes a ghastling.
Breaking the dried ghast or removing water from it causes it to revert back to its original state.
Items
 Happy ghast spawn egg

Used to spawn a happy ghast.
  Harness

Used to pilot a happy ghast.
Crafted with leather, glass, and wool.
Comes in 16 colors based on the color of the wool.
Music discs:

 "Lava Chicken" music disc
Obtained by killing a baby zombie while it is riding a chicken (a chicken jockey).
The music was composed by Hyper Potions.
 "Tears" music disc
Dropped by ghasts when killed by a player-deflected fireball.
The music was composed by Amos Roddy.
Paintings
Added a new painting based on the one in A Minecraft Movie by the artist Sarah Boeving:

Picture

Name
Size
Artist

Dennis
3x3
Sarah Boeving

Mobs
 Happy ghast

A passive version of the ghast, which can be equipped with a harness and ridden by up to four players.
 A mounted happy ghast would have its goggles down.
Can be stood on, similar to a shulker.
Can be temped with a harness when not worn or snowballs.
It can regenerate its health slowly.
Can be healed faster when on rain, snowing or on cloud level.
 Happy ghasts had a unique leash texture when a big mob or a boat was leashed.
 Baby version is called a ghastling.
Have a unique texture and sounds.
Spawned after a dried ghast gets hydrated in water.
Does not drown, unlike their adults.
Follows nearby adult happy ghasts, players, villagers, and any passive or neutral land animals until they get bored.
Can be fed snowballs to speed up their growth.
Sounds
Lead

Now produce a sound when snap.
Short and Tall dry grass

Now emits ambient sounds when above 2 sand, red sand, terracotta or stained terracotta blocks.
GUI

Locator bar

The locator bar is a new UI element on the player HUD that displays the direction of other players in the world.
When the locatorBar game rule is enabled and there are multiple players in a world, the locator bar appears on-screen for each player, replacing the experience bar. The player's experience level is still visible as before above the locator bar.
The locator bar displays colored indicators when the camera is facing within 120° toward another player. If another player is 30° above or below the camera's viewport (the screen), an up or down arrow is displayed.
Players in Spectator mode are not visible on the locator bar.
A player can hide and prevent their indicator from appearing on the locator bar via the following means:
Sneaking.
Wearing a head or a carved pumpkin.
Being under the Invisibility effect.
Can be disabled by map creator or server operator.
The locator bar can be used to locate entities other than the player, controlled by waypoint_transmit_range and waypoint_receive_range attributes.
The locator bar waypoint styles can be changed by /waypoint command.‌[JE  only]
The locator bar is in place of the EXP bar, but the EXP bar shows for a short time after collecting EXP.
Graphics

Vibrant Visuals‌[BE  only]

The new default graphics setting on supported devices, placed above the Simple and Fancy settings.
Adds pixel-perfect shadows, directional lighting, water caustics, and many more graphical features.
Planned for release on Java Edition at a later date.
Music
Main article: Minecraft: Chase the Skies (Original Game Soundtrack)
Lilypad

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays in frozen peaks and groves.
Below and Above

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays in cherry groves.
O's Piano

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays in lush caves.
Broken Clocks

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays in forests.
Fireflies

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays in deserts.
All of the above songs also play on the title screen when you start the game.
Tears

Composed by Amos Roddy.
Plays when inserting a "Tears" music disc into a jukebox.
Lava Chicken

Composed by Hyper Potions.
Plays when inserting a "Lava Chicken" music disc into a jukebox.
Changes
Blocks
Sand and Red sand

No longer emits windy sounds.
Terracotta and Stained terracotta

No longer emit ambient sounds.
Items
Carrot

Can now be used to tame, heal, and grow horses, donkeys, and mules.
Lead

Is now crafted with 5 string, with the former slimeball in its recipe replaced by an additional piece of string.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

String

2

Entities can now be attached to other entities with leads.
Can now be removed from entities using shears, including dispensers containing shears.
Snapping distance has been increased to 12 blocks.
Leather

Can now be found in monster room, ancient city, desert pyramid, jungle pyramid and stronghold altar chests in quantities 1-5, replacing saddles.
Saddle

Can now be crafted with 3 leather and 1 iron ingot.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Leather +Iron Ingot

Can now be removed from mobs wearing them by using shears on the mob.
Cannot be removed this way from ravagers or mobs with riders.
Can no longer be equipped using dispensers.
No longer found in chests in monster rooms, ancient cities, desert pyramids, jungle pyramids and in stronghold altar chests.
Shears

Can now remove saddles, horse armor, harnesses and carpets from mobs.
Can now cut leads.
They cannot be removed if the mob has a rider.
They cannot be removed if the player is crouching.
Saddles cannot be removed from ravagers.
Dispensers with shears cannot remove saddles, horse armor, harnesses and carpets equipped on mobs.
 Spawn eggs

Changed blaze and breeze spawn egg sizes to more accurately represent the mobs.
Splash potions

Now have a duration that varies based on distance from the impact point.
If a splash potion directly hits an entity, the entity receives the full duration and potency of the effect.
However, if the entity is further away from the impact, the effect's duration and potency decrease linearly.
Mobs
 Ghast

The resolution of the ghast texture has been doubled to match the new happy ghasts.
Now drops a ”Tears” music disc when player kills it using a deflected fireball.
Graphics
Clouds

The creeper face easter egg.
The texture for cloud distribution has been changed.
Now has more, smaller gaps between the clouds.
Clouds are of a more consistent, oval shape than before.
Now has a creeper face made up of clouds in a certain section of the texture.
Cloud render distance has been increased.
Further revisions
Java Edition
1.21.7 added the "Dennis" painting variant and the "Lava Chicken" music disc.
1.21.8 was a minor hotfix update.
Bedrock Edition
1.21.91 was released to fix bugs related to 1.21.90.
1.21.92 was released to fix bugs related to 1.21.91.
1.21.93 added the "Lava Chicken" music disc.
1.21.94 was released to fix bugs related to 1.21.92 and 1.21.93.
1.21.100 was a minor update that added "The Void" flat world preset and experimental features for The Copper Age.
1.21.101 was released to fix bugs related to 1.21.100.
Promotions
Giveaway
Promo for the giveaway.
To promote the release of the drop, a contest was held to give away ten travel-themed prizes. These included a hammock, a blanket, a weekender bag, Crocs, a thermos, and a creeper-themed cooler bag. To participate, players were tasked with taking a screenshot of gameplay, possibly using Vibrant Memories. Up to five photos per day were eligible.

Vibrant Memories
Main article: Vibrant Memories Add-On
Key art for the add-on.
The day following the drop's release, an add-on was published to promote the introduction of Vibrant Visuals. Developed by Oreville Studios, the add-on allows players to immortalize specific locations and memories in their worlds.

Take on Ghastastic Challenges
See also: Chase the Skies (skin pack)

Key art for the event.
To promote the release of the drop, an advertising campaign began on June 20, 2025, featuring two community challenges. For Bedrock players, they earned the two items. For Java players, a skin pack was also released to reward progress.

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Obtaining

Icon

Render

Ghast Rider Floatie

Outerwear

Rare

Require players to spawn 50 Million happy ghasts.

Happy Ghast Pilot Gear

Headwear

Require players to feed 1 Million ghastlings with snowballs.

Videos
Main article: Chase the Skies with Vibrant Visuals




























Gallery
Official artwork











			Key art with characters.



			Key art background.



			Key art of four characters riding a happy ghast.



			A cropped version of the key art.



			Pre-release key art.



			A textless version of the alternate key art.



			Page 1 of the launch pamphlet, announcing the release platforms.



			Page 2 of the launch pamphlet, listing off biomes and the locator bar.



			Page 3 of the launch pamphlet, listing off structures and snacks.



			Page 4 of the launch pamphlet, listing off activities.



			Page 5 of the launch pamphlet, listing off items and the happy ghast.



			Page 6 of the launch pamphlet, listing off "souvenirs".



			Sunny preparing for launch.



			Sunny's laptop confirming the drop's release.



			Community challenges rewards.


Mojang screenshots



			Three photographs of happy ghasts.



			The three new types of ghasts introduced.



			Ari leashing mobs, while holding a snowball to attract a ghastling.



			A happy ghast and a ghastling in a field.



			Each stage of hydration.



			Zuri building on a happy ghast.



			A chuckle of happy ghasts flying in mountains.



			Ari looking at a dried ghast in a soul sand valley next to a nether fossil.



			Ari riding a horse while followed by a happy ghast leashed to a camel.



			A similar but distinct scenario.



			A ghastling next to water. Ripples and reflections can be seen.



			A swamp  during sunset. The right image shows the reflection of the sunset in Vibrant Visuals.



			Ditto, but with a desert (left), stony shore (top), and badlands (right).



			Ditto, but with a mangrove swamp.


Merchandise images


























Notes

 This was added in the 1.21.7/1.21.93 hotfixes and not in the first release, although they're still considered part of the drop.

 This was added in the 1.21.7 hotfix in Java Edition, and only in the first release in Bedrock Edition, although still considered part of the drop.

References

 Name used as part of title of the drop's soundtrack: https://music.apple.com/my/album/minecraft-game-drop-2-2025-original-game-soundtrack-ep/1813039480

 "Our next game drop has a name"     by Sophie Austin  – Minecraft.net, June 1, 2025.

 "The Chase the Skies drop is here! To celebrate, we are giving away 10 travel-themed prize packs so you can adventure in style this summer. Relax in a custom Minecraft hammock, curl up with an exclusive Chase the Skies blanket, or get away from it all with a deluxe weekender bag and more!Enter here: aka.ms/chasetheskiessweepstakes"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), June 18, 2025

 "Chase the Skies Sweepstakes"     by Minecraft  – Gleam, June 18, 2025. "The Chase the Skies drop is here!To celebrate, we are giving away ten (10) travel-themed prize packs so you can adventure in style this summer. Relax in a custom Minecraft hammock, curl up with an exclusive Chase the Skies blanket, or get away from it all with a deluxe weekender bag. Decorate your Crocs with blocky Jibbitz, stay hydrated with a Thermos water bottle and keep things cool in a creeper cooler bag by Igloo.To enter, sign up below. Terms apply (see below). For additional entries, share a fun screenshot of your adventures while playing Minecraft, or by checking out the new Vibrant Memories camera add-on to level up your in-game photography. Will you showcase an amazing sunset using Vibrant Visuals? Take a picture of your happy ghast? Share a group photo with your friends? Come back again and again for an additional five (5) entries each day by sharing new photos.Travel is more fun with others! You can get additional entries by referring your friends. Good luck and enjoy the journey!"

 "Take on Ghastastic Challenges"     by Linn Viberg  – Minecraft.net, June 20, 2025.

Navigation