This feature is exclusive to Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


CloudCraft

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Release date

June 19, 2024

Article

CloudCraft

{
    "title": "CloudCraft",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 19, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/cloudcraft CloudCraft]",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

CloudCraft is a map on Minecraft Education taking place in a datacenter.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Environmentalist
1.2 Architect
1.3 Engineer
1.4 Security
1.5 Technician

2 Quotes

2.1 External

3 History
4 Gallery
5 References
6 Navigation

Summary



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

This map takes place in a datacenter and the surrounding village.
The map comprises five missions completed in a random order.

Environmentalist
Players fix a gap in the wiring, connecting a recycling machine to the power source. Players then recycle unused objects for the good of the community.

Architect
After interacting with the architect NPC, players will put saplings in designated locations before applying bone meal. Two trees are planted for every tree removed in the construction of the facility.

Engineer
To combat the attempted attack of a virus, the engineer shrinks down players and teleports them inside of the computer, where they must fight several waves of "bugs" with a weapon called the "creator hammer".

Security
There is suspicious activity occurring outside the building. The player must monitor nine securiy screens, and crouch to alert the iron golem security team when suspicious activity is seen.

Technician
The player must install three server racks to help certain residents of the town connect to the grid.
After these challenges are completed, players are free to continue exploring the data center and village, the latter of which has modernized.

Quotes
External
“How does the datacenter underpin our digital society, and how can understanding its role in managing online identities, rights, communication, literacy, security, and safety empower students with the cyber safety skills essential for responsible and protected digital citizenship?„ — Essential Learning Question from Minecraft Education article
History



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Gallery



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

References

 https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/cloudcraft

Navigation