This is an index of related pages that share a common conceptual attribute. Unlike disambiguation pages, it can be linked to internally if the article text is relevant to all items in the index.However, if an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.
  This article is about the rendering mechanic.   For items used to apply color to others, see Dye.   For other uses, see Color (disambiguation).
Colors are applied to several blocks, items and particles in order to display a much wider array of possibilities than would be possible with a raw unmodified texture without the need for potentially millions of distinct files.
Contents

1 Texture colors
2 Block and fluid colors

2.1 Biome-dependent

2.1.1 Grass
2.1.2 Foliage
2.1.3 Dry foliage
2.1.4 Water

2.2 Other

2.2.1 Stems
2.2.2 Redstone wire
2.2.3 Cauldrons
2.2.4 Constant colors

3 Items

3.1 Effect colors
3.2 Plants
3.3 Maps
3.4 Dyed items

4 Other

4.1 Entities
4.2 Other objects

4.2.1 Font
4.2.2 World border

4.3 Graphical colors

4.3.1 Indirectional lighting
4.3.2 Sky

5 Navigation

Texture colors
While most objects directly use colors from the RGBA color texture map, some parts of textures are tinted with specific variable colors. Tinted textures are created by taking the base texture and multiplying it with the given tint, such as the biome color.

Block and fluid colors
Main article: Block colors
Biome-dependent
Main article: Biome § Tint
Grass
The following blocks are counted as part of the "grass" group of blocks, and are accordingly colored:

Grass Block
Short Grass
Tall Grass
Fern
Large Fern
Bush
Potted Fern
Sugar Cane
Pink Petals (stem only)
Wildflowers (stem only)
Grass colors are biome-dependent, and the colors used are usually picked from a dedicated grass colormap, with some exceptions.

Foliage
The following blocks are counted as part of the "foliage" group of blocks, and are accordingly colored:

Oak Leaves
Jungle Leaves
Acacia Leaves
Dark Oak Leaves
Mangrove Leaves
Vines
Foliage colors are biome-dependent, and the colors used are usually picked from a dedicated foliage colormap, with some exceptions.
Birch and spruce leaves are also counted as foliage, using a unique colormap each, which has a constant color.‌[Bedrock Edition  only]

Birch Leaves
Spruce Leaves
Dry foliage
One block is counted as part of the "dry foliage" group, colored in different tints of brown based on the biome using a dry foliage colormap, with some exceptions.

Leaf Litter
Water
Water placed in the world is also subject to biome coloring. In Java Edition, this also applies to cauldrons.

Water
Water Cauldron
Unlike grass and foliage, water colors are always predefined, and are never picked from a colormap.

Other
Stems
Unlike other crops, pumpkin stems and melon stems utilize a color system which applies a different color for each growth stage.

Pumpkin Stem
Melon Stem
Redstone wire
Redstone wire uses a color system which colors the wire depending on its current power level. With no power, it appears as a very dark red, whereas it appears bright red at full power.

Redstone Wire
Cauldrons



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Potions placed in cauldrons also use colors to represent the contained potion. The water is colored with the effect color.
Water in cauldrons can be dyed similar to leather armor, allowing many different colors by mixing dyes.
Signs
Any type of sign and hanging sign can be dyed, which will color its text one to one.

Constant colors
A small subclass of blocks use colors which do not change at all under any circumstances.

Lily Pad
Attached Melon Stem
Attached Pumpkin Stem
Items
Main article: Item colors
The following item textures are colored.

Effect colors
Main article: Effect colors
Potions and tipped arrows have predefined colors for each effect. Particles emitted by these effects also use these colors.

Potion
Splash Potion
Lingering Potion
Tipped Arrow
Plants
In Java Edition, plants that are subject to biome coloring have predefined colors for their item forms. These items have been colored in the textures in Bedrock Edition.

Grass Block
Short Grass
Tall Grass
Fern
Large Fern
Bush
Oak Leaves
Jungle Leaves
Acacia Leaves
Dark Oak Leaves
Mangrove Leaves
Vines
Birch Leaves
Spruce Leaves
Lily Pad
Maps
In Java Edition, maps and explorer maps have different colors for their overlay (written) texture. These items have been colored in the textures in Bedrock Edition.

Filled Map
Explorer Map
Dyed items
Main article: Dye § Color values
Certain items that can be dyed also display their colors as item forms, allowing many different colors by mixing dyes. Armor also displays these colors when rendered on entities. The calculations for firework stars are different.

Leather Cap
Leather Tunic
Leather Pants
Leather Boots
Leather Horse Armor
Wolf Armor
Firework Star
Other
Main article: Miscellaneous colors
Entities
Dyed sheep

Main article: Sheep § Color values
Sheep can be dyed, which changes the color of their wool with unique colors.
Wolf and cat collar
Both wolf and cat collars use the dye colors directly one to one.
Experience orbs
Experience orb textures are mostly white, gray, and red; a gradient is applied afterward to make them green and yellow.

Other objects
Particles

Main article: Particles § Colored particles
Alongside potion particles, several other particles are stored as gray textures with colors applied to them after the fact. Notable examples are the various dripping particles (water, lava, honey, crying obsidian, spore blossom), critical hit (which has a white texture but an orange color is later applied), and magic crit (same).
Note blocks also emit particles, whose base texture is gray, that change color through the spectrum.
Commands can be used to set the colors of some but not all particles.
Banners
Each single banner pattern texture on banners, both as item and block form, is colored using dye colors one to one.
Beacon beam
Beacon beams are colored according to default dye colors by stained glass. Without any stained glass, it defaults to the color for white dye.
End gateway beam
The End gateway creates a beam under certain circumstances which is colored different colors depending on why said beam is created.

Font
Main article: Formatting codes § Color codes
Any text in the game can be colored with §.‌[BE  only] Certain texts in the game are pre-colored.
Guardian beam
When attacking, guardians shoot a ranged beam which follows a gradient dependent on time.

World border
The world border in Java Edition has several colors. A blue color is applied if the border is stationary. If expanding, the world border takes on a green hue. If the world border is shrinking, the world border turns red. In the Nether, the world border is always red no matter if it is expanding, stationary, or shrinking. The world border becomes more opaque the closer the player is to it, and more transparent if the player is further away.

Graphical colors
 For all colors with Vibrant Visuals, see Vibrant Visuals/Configurations.

Classic light
Light illuminates and colors objects using a lightmap texture, which depends on the dimension and daylight cycle. The applied colors are different for each sky light and block light value.
Directional lighting
Directional light sources in Vibrant Visuals have set colors depending on the biome and daylight cycle. This colors all effects illuminated by the light source, including direct specular highlights and direct diffuse on objects.

Indirectional lighting
Indirectional light sources with Vibrant Visuals , including block and sky light, use the same static colors regardless of dimension or daylight cycle.
When the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experiment is enabled in Minecraft Preview, and Vibrant Visuals is enabled, all light-emitting blocks render colored lighting on the surrounding blocks. Furthermore, if point lights are enabled, some light blocks have point lighting, which is a directional light source with the same colors applied.
Fog
Fog is always rendered in any biome or dimension. There are many different fog types, each having various colors depending on the biome, daylight cycle, and more.
With Vibrant Visuals, air fog is colored by atmospherics. The game defines base colors for the horizon and zenith, illuminates these with rayleigh and mie scattering from directional lighting, and blends them. All effects are constantly changing with the daylight cycle and biome.
The color of volumetric fog is dependent of directional light colors, dynamically changed by scattering and absorption.

Sky
The Overworld sky box has different colors for most biomes, and changes depending on the daylight cycle, rainfall, thunderstorms, when lightning strikes, a wither is nearby,‌[BE  only] and the altitude.‌[BE  only]

Navigation