"Control" redirects here.  For the sprinting that is activated by the control key, see Sprinting.
 For the controls in Minecraft Legends, see MCL:Controls.

Minecraft offers controls tailored for different input methods.  While Java Edition is playable only with a keyboard and mouse, Bedrock Edition has a wider variety of control schemes in order to accommodate players across all platforms. These controls can be changed in the options menu.

Contents

1 Java Edition

1.1 Visual map
1.2 Non-configurable controls

1.2.1 Menu controls

1.3 Semi-configurable controls
1.4 Configurable controls

2 Bedrock Edition

2.1 Keyboard & Mouse

2.1.1 Non-configurable controls
2.1.2 Configurable controls
2.1.3 Full keyboard gameplay

2.2 Controller
2.3 Touch

3 Legacy versions
4 History

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition
4.3 Minecraft Education
4.4 Legacy Console Edition

5 Issues
6 Gallery

6.1 Java Edition Screenshots
6.2 Bedrock Edition Screenshots
6.3 Historical screenshots

7 See also
8 References
9 External links
10 Navigation

Java Edition
Visual map
Visual map of Minecraft keyboard controls. Click on the image for a clearer view.
Non-configurable controls



This section is missing information about: MC-270272 - mouse buttons 4 and 5 work, as do those above that 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition uses a combination of the mouse and keyboard for controls, generically known as "mouselook/keymove." Many prior games (such as DOOM and Quake) have used such a scheme, but those who have not played such a game before may need practice to get around effectively. Creative mode or Peaceful difficulty in Survival mode are helpful for a player to gain familiarity with the controls.

Action

Function

 Left Mouse Button

Pick an item up from a slot; split a stack evenly (hold and drag); sort loose items into one stack (double click).

 Right Mouse Button

Pick an item on a slot in half; Place one item from a stack in each inventory slot (hold and drag).

 Mouse Movement

Turning; aiming; camera movement.

 Scroll Up

Move the selected hotbar slot one to the left.
Increase movement speed in Spectator mode.

 Scroll Down

Move the selected hotbar slot one to the right.
Decrease movement speed in Spectator mode.

 Scroll Left

Move the selected hotbar slot one to the right.​[until: JE 26.3]
Move the selected hotbar slot one to the left.​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

 Scroll Right

Move the selected hotbar slot one to the left.​[until: JE 26.3]
Move the selected hotbar slot one to the right.​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

 Scroll Wheel

Scrolls through any menu screens when opened, including Video Settings, Select World screen, chat overlay, server list, etc.

Esc

Opens up the pause menu and gives back cursor control. Pauses singleplayer games. Closes any open GUI, including but not limited to: chat window, inventory, crafting table, furnace, command block, dialog, and more.

⎈ Control + B

Toggles the Narrator.

F5

When the F5 key is pressed while on the multiplayer screen, it refreshes the server list.

⇧ Shift

When the inventory is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking on an item or stack moves it between the inventory and the hotbar.
⇧ Shift +  clicking on a piece of armor, a carved pumpkin, a mob head or a pair of elytra moves it between the inventory and the corresponding armor slot.
⇧ Shift +  clicking on a shield moves it between the inventory and the off-hand slot.
When a container is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking on an item moves up to a stack between the container and the inventory. Existing stacks are filled first, then empty slots from top to bottom then from left to right. ⇧ Shift +  double clicking moves all items of the same kind. To ⇧ Shift +  double click, get one item in hand, and while holding ⇧ Shift, double click on another item type to move it.
When a crafting table is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking an item or stack in the inventory moves it into the 3×3 crafting grid. The slots are filled from left to right and then top to bottom.
When any type of furnace is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking an item or stack in the inventory moves it into the input (upper left) slot of the furnace. Items that can serve as fuel move to the fuel (lower left) slot.
When crafting, ⇧ Shift +  clicking the crafting output automatically crafts the maximum number of that item for the materials being used (up to one stack), and moves all crafted items to the inventory.
In the Survival inventory tab of the Creative inventory, ⇧ Shift +  clicking the X clears the whole inventory. In any other tab, ⇧ Shift +  clicking an item puts a stack onto the hotbar.
When in the Multiplayer server selection menu, ⇧ Shift + ↑ Up and ⇧ Shift + ↓ Down moves a server name to a specific position. Holding ⇧ Shift while a server name is selected and left clicking another server name causes them to swap.

⏎ Return
⎆ Numpad Enter

When chat is open, sends the typed chat message (if it's not empty) and closes chat.
When Creative inventory or the recipe book is open, focuses the search box.[verify]

⇞ Page Up, ⇟ Page Down

When chat is open, scrolls an entire page in the given direction.

␣ Space
⏎ Return
⎆ Numpad Enter

After loading a recipe from the recipe book to the crafting grid, press (or hold) this key to automatically refill the grid using any available materials in the inventory. Hold ⇧ Shift to refill entire stacks.
After selecting a trade from a villager, press (or hold) this key to automatically refill the items for the trade using any available materials in the inventory.

Menu controls
Menus out of the game and some in-game menus can be fully navigated using the keyboard. Notable exception that can't be fully navigated are the various inventories and the Advancements screen.

Action

Function

↑ Up, ↓ Down, ← Left, → Right

Moves focus to the element in the given direction.

↹ Tab

Moves focus to the next element. Skips list items for quicker navigation.

⇧ Shift + ↹ Tab

Moves focus to the previous element. Skips list items for quicker navigation.

⎈ Control + ↹ Tab

Moves to next tab in screens with tabs, such as the Create New World screen.

⎈ Control + ⇧ Shift + ↹ Tab

Moves to previous tab in screens with tabs.

↑ Up, ↓ Down

Scrolls the focused list in the given direction.

⏎ Return
⎆ Numpad Enter
␣ Space

Activates the focused element. This usually has the same function as left clicking it. If the focused element doesn't have an action, the main "Done" action of the current screen will be activated instead.
Sliders
When active, pressing ← Left and → Right will decrease and increase the value respectively. Pressing the activation key again deactivates the active slider.

Esc

Exits the current screen.

Semi-configurable controls
While aspects of these controls can be modified to an extent, full control over them is not possible.

Default

Option name

Function

Movement

W

Sprint (secondary)

This is always the same as the current forward key. When pressed twice in quick succession, causes the player to sprint (unless the character is too hungry). Attempting to sprint (Double-Tap) while fully submerged underwater initiates swimming.

Configurable controls



The default behavior of function keys (e.g. F1, F2, F3, etc.) differs by system. On macOS, these keys activate system functionality (such as changing the system volume or display brightness) by default, and it necessary to either hold down Fn while pressing the function key or enable the "Use F1, F2, etc. as standard function keys" system setting to send these inputs to Minecraft instead; third-party software which changes the behavior per-app also exists. Some Windows laptops exhibit similar behavior, and the solution is to either disable the "Fn lock" system setting or hold the ⇧ Shift key while pressing the function key.

These are controls that a user may change at their preference.

Default

In-game option name

Keybind identifier

Function

Movement

␣ Space

Jump

key.jump

Jump. When swimming, keeps the player afloat. When double-tapped, toggles Fly Mode (Creative only). When Fly Mode is on, causes the player to gain altitude (ascend). Player flies faster if sprinting.

⇧ Left Shift

Sneak

key.sneak

Sneak. When Fly Mode is on, causes the player to lose altitude (descend) unless jump is held.
Holding ⇧ Shift and pressing use on an usable block with a block in hand overrides the USE action and places the block instead. For example, using a lever on a block that would usually open an internal inventory (such as a dispenser) places the lever instead.
Used to get off rideable entities.

⎈ Left Control

Sprint

key.sprint

Start sprinting. Increase speed when Fly Mode is on.

A

Strafe Left

key.left

Strafe left.

D

Strafe Right

key.right

Strafe right.

S

Walk Backward

key.back

Move backward.

W

Walk Forward

key.forward

Move forward. The secondary sprint is permanently tied to this.

Miscellaneous

L

Advancements

key.advancements

Open the advancements screen.

G

Quick Actions

key.quickActions

Opens a dialog or a list of dialogs in the minecraft:quick_actions dialog tag configured by the world or server.

F2

Take Screenshot

key.screenshot

Simply pressing this key takes a screenshot and place it in:
%appdata%\.minecraft\screenshots on Windows
~/Library/Application Support/minecraft/screenshots on macOS
~/.minecraft/screenshots on Linux.

Not bound

Toggle Cinematic Camera

key.smoothCamera

Toggles mouse smoothing. Looking around becomes a slow, smooth and more cinematic motion.

F11

Toggle Fullscreen

key.fullscreen

Toggles full-screen mode.
When using some Apple keyboards, F11 must be pressed while holding Fn and ⌥ Option to enter fullscreen. Using F11 alone toggles Exposé, and pressing F11 while holding Fn turns down the volume or vice versa, depending on system preferences.
Some people are experiencing a bug while exiting from full-screen mode that causes an inescapable black screen. When that's the case, use ⌥ Alt + ↹ Tab to switch out of Minecraft and switch it back to windowed mode.
On Linux, mouse input is often buggy while in full-screen mode. After entering full-screen mode on Linux, the mouse typically restricts the player to a single 360-degree rotation. This can be fixed by hitting Esc to release the mouse then hitting Esc again to regrab it.
Also, note that this may not respect multiple monitors and Minecraft may occupy all screens instead of the one it is active on.

F1

Toggle GUI

key.toggleGui

Toggles the Heads-Up Display.
Use this in conjunction with F2 to take screenshots without the HUD. This option is also useful when exploring with a map.

F5

Toggle Perspective

key.togglePerspective

Toggles between first person, third person from the back and third person from the front.

F4

Toggle Spectator Shader Effects

key.toggleSpectatorShaderEffects

Toggles the currently active post-processing shader, such as screen filters when spectating as certain mobs.

Multiplayer

O

Friends Screen

key.friends

Opens the friends list.

↹ Tab

List Players

key.playerlist

In Multiplayer, hold the ↹ Tab key to see a list of players.
When in the chat window, ↹ Tab cycles through possible commands or arguments and also complete player names.

T

Open Chat

key.chat

Chat and server commands. If pressed while the Creative mode inventory is open, it switches to the Search tab.

/

Open Command

key.command

Opens the chat window with the "/" character already typed. On some keyboards (Nordic layout at least) this button might be asterisk/apostrophe: * '.

P

Social Interactions Screen

key.socialInteractions

Gives players the ability to disable chatting with certain players, thus hiding any messages receiving from them. Whether a player is hidden resets when re-joining a server.

Gameplay

 Left Mouse Button

Attack/Destroy

key.attack

Destroy blocks (hold down); Attack entity (click once).

 Middle Mouse Button

Pick Block

key.pickItem

Pressing that button while looking at a block or an entity makes the game attempt to put a corresponding item for the block or entity in the player's hand. For blocks, it is simply the block in item form. For mobs, the game places the corresponding spawn egg in the player's hand. This also works on boats, all types of minecarts, paintings, and armor stands‌[Java Edition  only] to get the entity in item form. If the item is in the hotbar, it switches the selected hotbar slot to the slot with that item. If the item is not in the hotbar, but in the player's inventory, it moves that item from the inventory into the hotbar. If no hotbar slot is empty, the item selected is replaced. In Creative mode, if the item is not in the inventory, the game gives the player that item.
Hovering over an item in any inventory and using the Pick Block key when in Creative gives one full stack of that item. Dragging over slots of inventory/container while holding an item fills them with full stacks of copies of that item.
If used on a tile entity while holding ⎈ Control, or ⌘ Command (for some Mac computers), the tile entity's nbt data are copied. The block given to the player has the Lore: (+DATA)‌[Bedrock Edition  only].

 Right Mouse Button

Use Item/Place Block

key.use

Place blocks, summon entities with spawn eggs, toggle levers/doors (click once), charge a bow (release to fire), crossbow, use crossbow, block using a shield, use special blocks like chests, doors, and levers, enter vehicles, eat food, drink potions, till farmland, shear or dye a sheep, command tamed wolves and cats to sit, trade with villagers, place fire using flint and steel or a fire charge, name a mob with a name tag, attach a lead to an animal or attach an animal on a lead to a fence, cast or reel in a fishing rod, throw a splash potion, egg, ender pearl, eye of ender, bottle o' enchanting, or snowball, equip armor from the hotbar if the associated armor slot is empty, eating cake, starting a furnace minecart, open book and quill and written book, use debug stick, add mob in a monster spawner.
Commonly, if both the item held and the block clicked on has a such purpose (like trying to place dirt on a chest), the block overrules the item. This also means a player can punch an entity while eating/drinking, however the eating/drinking resets when a player presses Button 1.
This button also uses items in the off-hand. Only items with a right click function can be used, and they are available only if the item in the main hand does not have a right click action, or its right click action cannot be performed.

Inventory

Q

Drop Selected Item

key.drop

Drop/toss an item. If items are stacked, only one gets thrown/tossed/dropped. In recent versions of Java Edition, holding the key causes single items to be dropped quickly from a stack. There is no actual "throw" command; "drop" (default Q) tosses an object approximately 2 to 3 blocks from the player. Eggs, ender pearls, eyes of ender, and snowballs can be thrown by the "use" command (default right-clicking). ⎈ Control + Q drops the whole stack of items.
Note that there is no corresponding Pick Up command. Dropped items are picked up (if there is room in inventory/hotbar) by moving near them. Placed items are picked up by "mining" (e.g. chopping up a sign with an axe), when they behave as dropped items and can be picked up as such.

1–9

Hotbar Slot 1–9

key.hotbar.1–key.hotbar.9

Selects the appropriate hotbar item. When in the inventory GUI, swap the contents of the inventory slot under the mouse pointer and the corresponding hotbar slot.

E

Open/Close Inventory

key.inventory

Opens the inventory. Close any open GUI.

F

Swap Item With Off Hand

key.swapOffhand

Switches the items in the players main and off-hand. When in the inventory GUI, swap the contents of the inventory slot under the mouse pointer and the off-hand slot.

Creative Mode

X

Load Toolbar Activator

key.loadToolbarActivator

Press this key + any number, to access any of the 9 saved toolbars.

C

Save Toolbar Activator

key.saveToolbarActivator

Press this key + any number, to save the current toolbar under that number.

Spectator

Not bound

Highlight Players

key.spectatorOutlines

Highlights players in Spectator mode.

 Middle Mouse Button

Select On Hotbar

key.spectatorHotbar

Shows the hotbar (commands window).

Debug

F3

Toggle Overlay

key.debug.overlay

Main article: Debug screen
Pressing this key toggles the appearance of extra debug information. The specific debug information can be configured by pressing F3 + F6.
Pressing the keys 1–9 while in the debug screen shows a more detailed view of the graph on the right. Pressing 0 shows a less detailed graph. (Hold ⇧ Shift before pressing F3 to display the Profiler graph.)

F3

Debug Modifier Key

key.debug.modifier

Main article: Debug hotkey
This key acts as a modifier key for the controls below.

D

Clear Chat

key.debug.clearChat

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key clears all chat history, including previously typed commands.

I

Copy Data

key.debug.copyRecreateCommand

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key copies the /setblock command for the block the player is currently looking at, with the corresponding coordinates, to the clipboard.

C

Copy Location

key.debug.copyLocation

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key copies the current location and rotation data as a /execute in <dimension> run tp @s command.

N

Cycle Spectator

key.debug.spectate

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key sets the player's game mode to Spectator, or to the previous game mode the player was in if they are already in Spectator mode.

C

Debug Crash

key.debug.crash

Main article: Debug hotkey
Holding down this key while holding down the debug modifier key for 10 seconds triggers a manual debug crash unless released. A warning message displays in chat every second after the keys have been held down for at least 2 seconds, in the format [Debug]: Crashing in <seconds remaining>.

F6

Debug Options

key.debug.debugOptions

Main articles: Debug hotkey and Debug screen § Information lines
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key opens the Debug Options menu, where the specific information that displays in the debug overlap can be configured.

S

Dump Dynamic Textures

key.debug.dumpDynamicTextures

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key exports all loaded dynamic textures to .minecraft/screenshots/debug.

V

Dump Version Info

key.debug.dumpVersion

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key displays the client's game version information in the following format (for what each value means, see version.json):

id = <game version>
name = <version name>
data = <data version>
series = <version branch>
protocol = <protocol version>
build_time = <release time in ISO 8601>
pack_resource = <resource pack format number>
pack_data = <data pack format number>
stable = <whether version is stable>

F4

Game Mode Switcher

key.debug.switchGameMode

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key opens the game mode switcher.

A

Reload Chunks

key.debug.reloadChunk

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key reloads all chunks.

T

Reload Resource Packs

key.debug.reloadResourcePacks

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key reloads the changes from all resource packs, such as textures and sounds.
If the player holds the attack or use button while triggering this control, then releases it during the reloading, the corresponding button's input repeatedly gets sent, which is useful for operating automatic farms.

H

Show Advanced Tooltips

key.debug.showAdvancedTooltips

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles showing additional tooltips, such as item durability and armor color.

G

Show Chunk Boundaries

key.debug.showChunkBorders

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles the chunk_borders debug renderer.

B

Show Hitboxes

key.debug.showHitboxes

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles the entity_hitboxes debug renderer.

L

Start/Stop Profiling

key.debug.profiling

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key tests for performance metrics and saves them to .minecraft/debug/profiling/<yyyy-MM-dd_HH.mm.ss>.zip.

X

Toggle Improved Transparency​[upcoming: JE 26.3]

key.debug.improvedTransparency

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the game renders with improved transparency.

P

Toggle Lost Focus Pause

key.debug.focusPause

Main article: Debug hotkey
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the game automatically pauses when the game loses focus or is not selected as the primary window.

1

Profiling Chart

key.debug.profilingChart

Main articles: Debug hotkey and Debug menu § Profiler graph
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the profiler graph (pie chart) appears on the debug menu.

2

FPS Charts

key.debug.fpsCharts

Main articles: Debug hotkey and Debug menu § FPS graph
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the FPS graph appears on the debug menu.

3

Network Charts

key.debug.networkCharts

Main articles: Debug hotkey, Debug menu § TPS graph, Debug menu § Bandwidth graph, and Debug menu § Ping graph
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the TPS graph, bandwidth graph, and ping graph appear on the debug menu.

4

Lightmap Texture

key.debug.lightmapTexture

Main articles: Debug hotkey and Debug menu § Lightmap graph
Pressing this key while holding down the debug modifier key toggles whether the lightmap graph appears on the debug menu.

Bedrock Edition
In Bedrock Edition, there are three control modes available: Keyboard & Mouse, Controller, and Touch. Keyboard & Mouse and Touch controls are not available for Nintendo Switch, although a keyboard can be used for typing and the touchscreen can be used for menu screens and GUIs. All other platforms support any control mode, but the device may not support it by default.
Whenever an input is detected from a different control mode, the game automatically switches to that control mode and enables its settings. The game launches with the latest selected control mode, or the device default on first launch.

Keyboard & Mouse
The keyboard and mouse controls are similar to Java Edition, with a few differences. Most keybinds can be changed in the settings, with a few optional settings related to the controls. Keyboard and mouse controls are unavailable on the Nintendo Switch and require external keyboards on devices without a built-in keyboard and mouse (mobile and consoles).
The game will enter keyboard & mouse mode when it receives a mouse event, but key event won't.[needs testing]

Non-configurable controls

Action

Function

Picks up an item from a slot (a stack from Creative inventory) (click once); Splits a stack (hold and drag); sort loose items into one stack (double-click).

Picks up an item from a slot in half; Places one item from a stack in each inventory slot (hold and drag).

 Mouse Movement

Turning; aiming; camera movement.

Selects an item on the hotbar. Note that horizontal scrolling does nothing.
Scrolls through any scroll-able regions of menu screens and GUIs when opened.

Esc

Opens up the pause menu and gives back cursor control. Pauses singleplayer games. Closes any open GUI, and menu pop-up. Returns to previously opened menu screens, or opens the "Exit Minecraft" pop-up when on the main menu.

⎈ Control + B

Toggles text-to-speech, showing a notification in the chat.

F1

Toggles the Heads-Up Display, including player hand and paper doll.

F8

Toggles the paper doll from showing on the HUD.

F11

Toggles full screen mode.

⇧ Shift

When the inventory is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking on an item or stack moves it between the inventory and the hotbar. ⇧ Shift +  clicking on a piece of armor moves the piece between inventory and the armor slots.
When a container is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking on an item transfers it between the container and the inventory. Existing stacks are filled first, then empty slots from top to bottom then from left to right.
When a furnace is open, ⇧ Shift +  clicking an item or stack in the furnace moves it to the inventory, and ⇧ Shift +  clicking an item or stack in the inventory moves it into the input slot of the furnace. Fuel items move into the fuel slot first if it is empty or if the item that occupied the slot is less than a stack of the same kind.
When crafting, ⇧ Shift +  clicking the crafted item automatically crafts the maximum number of that item for the materials being used (up to one stack), and moves all crafted items to the inventory.
⇧ Shift +  clicking an item from the Creative inventory menu puts the maximum stack of the item onto the hotbar (inventory if full).

⏎ Return⎆ Numpad Enter

When chat is open, sends the typed chat message (if it's not empty) and closes chat.
Activates the focused menu element. This usually has the same function as left clicking it. If the focused element doesn't have an action, the main "Done" action of the current screen will be activated instead.
Sliders
When active, pressing ← Left and → Right will decrease and increase the value respectively. Pressing the activation key again deactivates the active slider.

↑ Up, ↓ Down, ← Left, → Right

Switches the highlighted slot or interactable buttons onto another; Moves the dragged item onto a different slot or other interactable buttons.
Moves focus to the menu element in the give direction.

↹ Tab

Moves focus to the next element.

⇧ Shift + ↹ Tab

Moves focus to the previous element.

⌫ Backspace

Returns to the previous menu screen, but only in Ore UI menus.

Configurable controls

Default

In-game option name

Function

Attack/Destroy

Destroys blocks (hold down); Attacks (click once).

Pick Block

Pressing that button while looking at a block or an entity causes the game to attempt placing a corresponding item for the block or entity in the player's hand. For blocks, it is simply the block in item form. For mobs, the game places the corresponding spawn egg in the player's hand. This also works on boats, all types of minecarts, and paintings (not armor stands) to get the entity in item form. If the item is in the hotbar, it switches the selected hotbar slot to the slot with that item. If the item is not in the hotbar, but in the player's inventory, it moves that item from the inventory into the hotbar. If no hotbar slot is empty, the item selected is replaced. In Creative mode without the item in the inventory, the game gives the player that item.
If used on a tile entity while holding ⎈ Control, the tile entity's nbt data is copied. The block given to the player has the Lore: "(+DATA)."

Use Item/Place Block

Places blocks, interact with blocks, entities, or items, equip armor from the hotbar if the associated armor slot is empty.
If both the item held and the faced block interactable, the block overrules the item; that is, the player interacts with the block.

Q

Drop Item

Drop/toss an item. If items are stacked, only one is thrown/tossed/dropped. Holding the key causes single items to be dropped quickly from a stack. ⎈ Control + Q drops the whole stack of items.

1–9

Hotbar Slot 1–9

Selects the appropriate hotbar item. When in the inventory GUI, swap the contents of the inventory slot under the mouse pointer and the corresponding hotbar slot.

E

Inventory

Opens the inventory. Closes any open GUI.

F5

Toggle Perspective

Toggles between first person, third person from the back, and third person from the front.

␣ Space

Jump/Fly Up

Jumps the player. When swimming, keeps the player afloat. Double-tapping toggles Fly Mode (Creative only). Causes the player to ascend while flying.

⇧ Shift

Sneak/Fly Down

Sneak. When Fly Mode is on, causes the player to sneak midair and lose altitude (descend).
Holding ⇧ Shift and pressing use on an interactable block with a block in hand overrides the use action and places the block instead. Dismounts the player from rideable entities.

⎈ Control

Sprint

Starts sprinting. Speed increases when Fly Mode is on.

A

Strafe Left

Moves the player leftward.

D

Strafe Right

Moves the player rightward.

S

Walk Backward

Moves the player backward.

W

Walk Forward

Moves the player forward. Double-click to start sprinting.

Z

Mob Effects

Opens/closes the Status effects window, only available while status effects are active.

T, ⏎ Return

Chat button

Opens/closes the chat window.

/

Open Command

Opens the chat window with the "/" character already typed.

B

Emote

Open/closes the emote menu. 1-4 or arrow keys can be used to quickly perform preset emotes.

Unassigned

Identify

Shows in a tooltip above the hotbar the name of the object the player is facing, if it can be interacted with. This is also voiced by text to speech.

F2

Take Screenshot

Simply pressing this key takes a screenshot and stores it in the screenshot gallery, which is accessible under the profile screen. Screenshots are automatically saved on the com.mojang/Screenshots directory. Only available when signed in.

F4

Social Drawer

Opens the social drawer in-game.

[

Menu Tab Left

Cycles the inventory/world menu/settings tabs to the left.

]

Menu Tab Right

Cycles the inventory/world menu/settings tabs to the right.

 Fourth Mouse Button

Menu Cancel

Closes a menu screen/returns to the previous menu screen. Opens the "Exit Minecraft" pop-up on the main menu.

N

Open Notification

Opens/closes a menu toast notification; e.g. redirects to the resource pack settings when the toast is about a resource pack.

⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + C

Copy Coordinates.

Copies the player's current coordinates. Only available when the "Copy Coordinate GUI" option in the Creator settings tab is enabled. Only the last key of this keybind is configurable.

⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + X

Copy Facing Coordinates.

Copies the coordinates of the block the player is facing. Only available when the "Copy Coordinate GUI" option in the Creator settings tab is enabled. Only the last key of this keybind is configurable.

Command Macro 1-10

Executes the entered command when pressed in combination with ⌥ Alt. Requires the "Enable Command Macros" creator setting to be enabled. Each command macro slot has a field for entering a command.

Full keyboard gameplay
If "Full Keyboard Gameplay" is enabled, the following inputs are made available/used instead.

Default

In-game option name

Function

-

Look Up Slight

Moves the camera 15 degrees up.

+

Look Down Slight

Moves the camera 15 degrees down.

Numpad 9

Look Up Right

Moves the camera 45 degrees up-right.

Numpad 8

Look Up

Moves the camera 45 degrees up.

Numpad 7

Look Up Left

Moves the camera 45 degrees up-left.

Numpad 6

Look Right

Moves the camera 45 degrees right.

Numpad 5, ⇲ End, \

Look Center

Moves the camera to the middle.

Numpad 4

Look Left

Moves the camera 45 degrees left.

Numpad 3

Look Down Right

Moves the camera 45 degrees down-right.

Numpad 2

Look Down

Moves the camera 45 degrees down.

Numpad 1

Look Down Left

Moves the camera 45 degrees down-left.

↑ Up

Look Up Smooth

Moves the camera up smoothly.

↓ Down

Look Down Smooth

Moves the camera down smoothly.

← Left

Look Left Smooth

Moves the camera left smoothly.

→ Right

Look Right Smooth

Moves the camera right smoothly.

⇞ Page Up

Cycle Item Left

Cycles the selected hotbar to the left.

⇟ Page Down

Cycle Item Right

Cycles the selected hotbar to the right.

N

Open Notification

Opens/closes a toast notification.

Q

Attack/Destroy

Functions are equivalent to left click in normal mode.

X

Pick Block

Functions are equivalent to middle click in normal mode.

E

Use Item/Place Block

Functions are equivalent to right click in normal mode.

Z

Drop Item

Functions are equivalent to Q in normal mode.

1–9

Hotbar Slot 1–9

Functions are the same as in normal mode.

C

Inventory

Functions are equivalent to E in normal mode.

F5

Toggle Perspective

Functions are the same as in normal mode.

␣ Space

Jump/Fly Up

⇧ Shift

Sneak/Fly Down

⎈ Control

Sprint

A

Strafe Left

D

Strafe Right

S

Walk Backward

W

Walk Forward

↹ Tab

Mob Effects

Functions are equivalent to Z in normal mode.

T, ⏎ Return

Chat button

Functions are the same as in normal mode.

/

Open Command

B

Emote

F2

Take Screenshot

[

Menu Tab Left

]

Menu Tab Right

P

Menu Cancel

⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + Unassigned

Copy Coordinates.

Copies the player's current coordinates. Only available when the "Copy Coordinate GUI" option in the Creator settings tab is enabled. Only the last key of this keybind is configurable.

⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + Unassigned

Copy Facing Coordinates.

Copies the coordinates of the block the player is facing. Only available when the "Copy Coordinate GUI" option in the Creator settings tab is enabled. Only the last key of this keybind is configurable.

Command Macro 1-10

Functions are the same as in normal mode.

Default keyboard and mouse diagram, does not include all controls.
Controller



 There is a related tutorial page for this topic! 
See Tutorial:Playing with a controller.

The "Controller" controls for gamepads are similar to the Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4 editions, with some differences. All of these controls, except the control sticks and menu controls, can be changed in the settings, as well as some other controller-related options. The Nintendo Switch version can be played with a pair of Joy-Con or Joy-Con 2 controllers, the Nintendo Switch Pro Controller, the Nintendo Switch 2 Pro Controller, or the Nintendo Switch Lite. It cannot be played with a single Joy-Con or Joy-Con 2 controller, as they do not have enough buttons or control sticks. If the gamepad has two control sticks, then the left stick (/) would be used for moving and the right stick (/) would be used for looking. The blank spaces mean that the function is, by default, left unassigned and it is up to the player to assign a button to it. All platforms support gamepads.
If the connected controller loses its connection, the game hides the HUD and shows a message prompting to reconnect it, while the FPS is lowered. This can be disabled in the settings.

Default

Function

 │

 /

Menu (non-configurable)

Look (non-configurable)

Jump/Fly Up

/

Drop Item

Attack/Destroy

Use Item/Place Block

Crafting

Inventory

Cycle Item Left

Cycle Item Right

/

Toggle Perspective

Sneak/Fly Down

Sprint

Fly Up Slow

Fly Down Slow

/

Emote

Open Notification/Social Drawer/Mob Effects

/

Chat button

Strafe Left

Strafe Right

Walk Backwards

Walk Forwards

Pick Block

Identify



			Default Xbox controller diagram.



			Default Nintendo Switch controller diagram.



			Default PS4 controller diagram.


Touch
"Touch" controls for touchscreen devices use controls shown on the HUD. There are three touch control modes, and an option to split controls, resulting in four actual control modes:

Joystick & tap to interact. Drag joystick to move. Drag anywhere else to look around. Tap and hold blocks to interact with them.
Joystick & aim crosshair. Drag joystick to move. Drag anywhere else to look around. Aim crosshair and use buttons to interact with blocks.
D-pad & tap to interact. Tap arrows to move. Drag anywhere else to look around. Tap and hold blocks to interact with them.
Split controls: Aim crosshair and use buttons to interact with blocks.
All control buttons and the joystick can be customized in location, size, and opacity, in the settings, where various other touch control features can be changed.
Menu buttons always appear on the top of the screen regardless of touch control mode.
Touch controls are available on devices with a touchscreen except Nintendo Switch, where the touchscreen can only be used to interact with the hotbar, inventory, and menus. This can also be enabled for other devices.
The game will enter touch mode when it receives a touch event.[needs testing]

Action

Function

Joystick. Moves the player. Moving the knob to the top causes the player to sprint if "Sprint using the joystick" is turned on.

Sprint button, joystick only. Increase speed when Fly Mode is on. The button disappears if "Sprint using the joystick" is turned on.

Move forward. When double-tapped, causes the player to sprint (unless the character is too hungry). When Fly Mode is on, double-tapping increases the speed at which the player flies. Attempting to sprint (Double-Tap) while fully submerged underwater initiates swimming. While tapped,  and  appears.

Move backward. While tapped,  and  appears.

Strafe left. While tapped,  and  appears.

Strafe right. While tapped,  and  appears.

Strafe left while moving forward.

Strafe right while moving forward.

Strafe left while moving backward.

Strafe right while moving backward.

Jump. When swimming, keeps the player afloat, the button changes to . When double-tapped in Creative mode, the player is able to fly, the button changes to .

Double tap to toggle sneaking, and the button changes to . Double tap again to toggle back, the button reverts to . When swimming, the button changes to . When flying, the button changes to .

Swim up. When getting out of the water or lava, the button reverts to .

Swim down. When getting out of the water or lava, the button reverts to .

Fly up, when flying in Creative mode. When double-tapped, the player no longer flies, the button reverts to .

Fly down, when flying in Creative mode. When double-tapped, the player no longer flies, the button reverts to .

Unused button, apparently it would be the mount button. Mount the player from horse or camel.

Dismount button. Dismounts the player from horses or camels.

Unused button, apparently it would be the mount button. Mount the player from boats or mine carts.

Dismount button. Dismounts the player from boats or mine carts.

Attack button, only visible with "Joystick & aim crosshair" control mode. Attack mobs and destroy blocks.

Interact button, only visible with "Joystick & aim crosshair" control mode. Places blocks, interact with blocks, entities, or items, equip armor from the hotbar if the associated armor slot is empty.
If both the item held and the faced block interactable, the block overrules the item; that is, the player interacts with the block.

Pick block button, can be turned on with the toggle. Pressing that button while looking at a block causes the game to attempt placing a corresponding item for the block in the player's hand.

Opens the Emotes menu.

Opens the Chat screen.

Opens the game menu.

Perspective button, can be turned on with the toggle. Toggles between first person, third person from the back, and third person from the front.

Used for the Agent.‌[Minecraft Education  only]

Move Camera

Slide/move finger across the screen.

Place Block

By default (split controls is disabled), tap the desired area to place the block.When split controls is enabled, position the camera so that the crosshair is pointed at the desired area and tap anywhere on the screen (excluding the HUD) to place the block.

Break Block

Hold finger down on the desired block to break. How long it takes to break the block is indicated by an icositetragonal icon on the screen, varying on the tool being used to break it.When split controls is enabled, position the camera so that the pointed at the desired block and hold anywhere on the screen (excluding the HUD) to break the block.

Drop item

Long-press on a hotbar slot for about 2 seconds[verify] to drop the entire stack. You can also open the GUI, tap on the stack, then tap somewhere outside of GUI.

Use Block

By default (split controls is disabled), tap the desired block to use its functionality.When split controls is enabled, position the camera so that the crosshair is pointed at the desired area and tap anywhere on the screen (excluding the HUD) to use its functionality.

Interact button

An interact button for breeding.
Some items have extra functionality, and these can be executed when either long-pressing on the target or tapping the interaction button, located on top of the hotbar. These are listed below:

Ignite: to ignite a creeper while holding a flint and steel.
Edit: to edit an NPC’s message
Leave Boat: to leave the boat when riding it
Feed: to feed an animal while holding food, feed another animal so that both of them can breed
Fish: to cast and uncast the rod while holding a fishing rod
Milk: to milk a cow or a goat when holding a bucket
Shear: to shear sheep and mooshrooms while holding shears
Milk Stew: to get mushroom stew from a mooshroom while holding a bowl
Board: to board a boat
Ride: to ride a minecart, horse or strider
Sit: to make a pet sit
Stand: to make a pet stand
Talk: to talk to an NPC in premade world maps like world templates
Dye: to dye sheep or a wolf's collar while holding a dye
Cure: to cure a zombie villager while holding a golden apple
Open: to open a minecart with chest or a minecart with hopper
Create Map: to create a map while holding an empty map
Take Picture: to take a picture using the camera
Saddle: to put a saddle onto a pig or a strider
Mount: to mount onto a pig or a strider
Boost: to boost a pig or a strider while holding a carrot on a stick or a warped fungus on a stick, respectively.
Write: to write in a book and quill
Leash: to leash a mob while holding a lead
Unleash to unleash a leashed mob
Attach Chest: to attach a chest into a donkey, mule or a llama
Trade: to trade with a villager
Pose: to pose an armor stand
Equip: to equip an armor stand while holding a piece of armor
Read: to read a written book while holding it
Wake Villager: to wake a villager when a villager is in a bed
Brush: to brush an armadillo
Barter: to barter with piglins while holding a gold ingot
Cut: to cut a lead while holding shears
Remove Saddle: to remove a saddle of a pig or a strider while holding shears
Equip Harness: to put a harness onto a happy ghast
Remove Harness: to remove a harness of a happy ghast while holding shears
Spawn Baby: to spawn baby of a mob when using a spawn egg
Give Block: to give a block to a sulfur cube
Remove Block: to remove a block from a sulfur cube while holding shears

Split stack

Stack progress bar.Open GUI and long-press on a stack. A small progress bar with stack number appears right above the stack, pressing and moving to the left or right increases or decreases the number of selected items. Tap on an empty slot, a proportional part of the stack is moved there.

Split stack evenly

Open GUI and tap on a stack, then tap-and-slide across two or more empty slots to split the stack evenly between them.

Consolidate stacks

Open GUI and double-tap on a stack. Partial stacks of this item consolidate into a single stack.

Mass crafting

Long-press on recipe result for mass crafting. The speed varies; mass crafting on the crafting table is slower than on a stonecutter.

Default touchscreen diagram.
Legacy versions
Main article: Controls/Old keys
Some editions such as Legacy Console Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition have either been discontinued or long forgotten about. However, their controls are documented at Controls/Old keys for historical purposes.

History
 For controls removed from the game, see Controls/Old keys.



This section is missing information about:
Missing information from Java Edition and legacy console, when each button had its action added or changed? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
Pressing Esc (escape) closes the game.

Pressing and holding WASD and ↑←↓→ allow the player to move on the x-axis and z-axis.

Pressing and holding ␣ Space allows the player to jump.

Pressing and holding R resets the player's coordinates to a random X and Y position within the world bounds, at Y=74.

Pressing ⏎ Return saves the level.rd-132211
Pressing  Right Mouse Button now breaks a block.

Pressing  Left Mouse Button now places a block.Java Edition Classicmc-161616
Pressing Y now inverts the mouse axis.0.0.9a
Pressing  Right Mouse Button now toggles between block placing and block breaking modes.0.0.10a
Pressing Esc now unhooks the mouse.0.0.12a
Pressing F now toggles between four levels of render distance which was known as "Fog setting".0.0.13a
Pressing Esc now opens the pause menu.0.0.14a_04
Pressing ⏎ Return now saves the player's current coordinates as the spawn point.

Pressing R now resets the player's coordinates to the spawn point.0.0.17a
Pressing ↹ Tab now lists logged-in players in multiplayer.0.0.20a
The  Scroll Wheel for block selection was inverted.0.0.22a_01
Pressing M now mutes sounds.0.0.23a
Pressing the arrow keys no longer moves the player.

Pressing ⊞ Windows no longer causes the player to jump.0.0.23a_01
Added a keymapping to control render distance.

Pressing F once again toggles between four levels of render distance.​[more information needed]0.24_SURVIVAL_TEST
Pressing  Right Mouse Button now places a block.

Pressing  Left Mouse Button now mines a block.

The player can auto-jump again.​[more information needed]

Reduced reach by 1 block.

Pressing B spawns a sign.0.25 SURVIVAL TEST 4
Pressing  Right Mouse Button no longer deals damage.0.26 SURVIVAL TEST
Pressing B no longer spawns a sign.??????
At some point, likely Classic, keys could no-longer just be held down.Java Edition Indev?
​[more information needed]Java Edition Infdev?
​[more information needed]Java Edition Alpha?
​[more information needed]Java Edition Beta1.8pre2
Pressing Pick Block on a block now pick blocks that block if within the player's inventory.Java Edition1.2.4
Pressing F3 (sometimes Fn + F3 on Mac and laptops) now displays the debug screen, but without the graphs.

Pressing ⇧ Shift + F3 (sometimes Fn + ⇧ Shift + F3 on Mac and laptops) now displays the debug screen, but with the graphs.1.2.5
Using Pick Block on a block in Creative mode now pick blocks that blocks loot drop. For example, pick blocking gravel has a chance to give flint.

Pressing Pick Block on an entity now pick blocks bedrock.1.3.112w15a
Using Pick Block on a block in Creative mode now pick blocks that block instead of its loot drop.

Pressing Pick Block on an entity in Creative mode now pick blocks the corresponding spawn egg

⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button can now be used to equip armor.

⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button can now be used to put items in enchantment tables.

⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button can now be used to put items in brewing stands. However, it does not work with the third potion slot yet.12w16a
Items can now be deleted from the hotbar by ⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button while on the Creative mode item selection screen.

Typing / then pressing ↹ Tab shows a list of available commands; pressing ↹ Tab while writing a command auto-completes its arguments.12w22a
Pressing F now reloads chunks.12w23a
Pressing F no longer reloads chunks.1.3.2
Pressing F1 in the server list now toggles the visibility of server addresses.1.4.212w34a
Pressing F3 + P now toggles the auto-pause when the window loses focus (mainly for debugging).

Pressing F3 + H now toggles detailed item descriptions (also for debugging).12w41a
Pressing F3 + H now shows the durability of damaged tools and armor – on maps it shows the zoom level.

The pie chart on the debug overlay is now shown when opening it using ⇧ Shift + F3 instead of vice versa.1.7.213w36a
The camera switching key, default set to F5, can now be rebound.

Pressing ⎈ Left Control while moving forward now makes the player sprint.1.1217w13a
Pressing ⎈ Control + B (⌘ Command + B on Mac) now toggles the narrator.?
⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button can now be used to insert items into a crafting table's nine grid slots.1.20.223w33a
Added "Narrator Hotkey" option to accessibility settings. It allows the narrator to be toggled with ⎈ Control + B.?
 Secondary Scroll Wheel now also changes the highlighted hotbar slot.1.21.224w34a
Pressing ␣ Space, ⏎ Return, ⎆ Numpad Enter in a crafting table now repeats the last used recipe from the recipe book.

⇧ Shift +  Left Mouse Button the output of a crafting table now crafts the maximum possible amount of items.1.21.424w44a
The pick block function now also works on entities in Survival and Adventure mode. Previously it only worked in Creative mode.1.21.625w20a
Pressing G now displays the dialog screen as a configurable button.?
Spectator highlight players and select on hotbar actions are now rebindable.?
It is possible for some controls, such as "Select on Hotbar" and "Pick Block", to be bound to the same button and not be in a state of conflict.1.21.1125w41a
Several uses of the ⌘ Command key on Mac have been rebound to ⎈ Control.

Keys used to access debug features can now be rebound.

The debug modifier key can be bound separately from the debug overlay key.

The key to toggle GUI can now be rebound.

The key to toggle spectator shader effects, such as when spectating an enderman, can now be rebound.26.1snap1
Added F3 + 4 for displaying the lightmap.?
Errors are no longer produced in the game log when assigning a control to a key with no associated key ID.Upcoming Java Edition26.3snap4
Up to 48 mouse buttons are now supported for controls rebinding.

KEY_KPPLUSMINUS, KEY_KPLEFTPAREN and KEY_KPRIGHTPAREN now appear to be supported, at least on Linux.

 Scroll Left and  Scroll Right now move the selected hotbar slot the correct way.[is this the correct version?]
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.1.1
 The dpad has been added for touch devices.v0.1.2
The search button was added used to be able to change the camera to and from third person view on all Android devices.v0.3.0
 The pause button has been added for touch devices.
The search button was removed.v0.6.0
         The dpad has had its texture updated in addition to the addition of flight button.v0.7.0
 The chat button has been added.v0.9.0build 1
Added interact button.v0.12.1build 1
The buttons have been divided on the screen.
 Added sneak button.Bedrock Edition1.16.0beta 1.15.0.51
 The emote button has been added but is inaccessible.beta 1.16.0.57
The emote button is now accessible during gameplay.1.16.100beta 1.16.100.50
         New textures have been added for xbox controls to match Ore UI.beta 1.16.100.56
         New textures have been added for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.
         New textures have been added for playstation 4 controls to match Ore UI.1.16.200
(for Windows only) Added ; to toggle between RTX rendering and the default. This only works if there is an active RTX resource pack.1.16.210beta 1.16.210.50
            New textures have been added for controller controls to match Ore UI.beta 1.16.210.53
Fullscreen can now be toggled with F11 keyboard shortcut.1.16.220beta 1.16.220.50
                                                               New textures have been added for keyboard, mouse, and dark controls to match Ore UI.
               New textures have been added for nintendo switch and dark controls to match Ore UI.
               New textures have been added for playstation 4 and dark controls to match Ore UI.
               New textures have been added for xbox and dark controls to match Ore UI.beta 1.16.220.52
            New textures have been added for controller controls to match Ore UI.1.17.0beta 1.17.0.56
  Textures have been removed for mouse controls to match Ore UI.1.17.30beta 1.17.20.20
  New textures have been added for playstation 4 controls to match Ore UI.
  Textures have been removed for select on playstation 4 controls to match Ore UI.1.18.30Preview 1.18.20.24
 New textures have been added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.Preview 1.18.30.23
           New buttons have been added available only in aim and touch mode currently only available in preview.1.19.0Preview 1.19.0.31
      New textures have been added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.1.19.10Preview 1.19.10.20
 Joystick texture has been changed.Preview 1.19.10.21
  New textures have been added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.
                               Textures have been removed for keyboard, mouse, and dark controls to match Ore UI.
              Textures have been removed for nintendo switch and dark controls to match Ore UI.
              Textures have been removed for playstation 4 and dark controls to match Ore UI.
              Textures have been removed for xbox and dark controls to match Ore UI.Preview 1.19.10.22
 Interaction button has had its texture changed.1.19.30
New buttons are now available outside of preview.1.19.30Preview 1.19.30.21
Added keyboard shortcuts that allow players to copy either their current coordinates or the coordinates of a block.
⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + C is the default for copying current coordinates.
⎈ Control + ⌥ Alt + X is the default for copying coordinates of selected block.
Needs the "Enable Copy Coordinate UI" enabled in Creator settings.1.19.60Preview 1.19.60.22
 New textures have been added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.1.19.70Preview 1.19.70.23
 Textures have been removed for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.1.20.30Preview 1.20.30.21
   Updated the menu HUD icons for touch controls.
 Textures have been re-added for xbox controls to match Ore UI.
 Textures have been removed for xbox controls to match Ore UI.Preview 1.20.30.24
 New textures have been added for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.
 Textures have been removed for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.1.20.50Preview 1.20.50.20
 Textures have been changed for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.1.20.70Preview 1.20.70.20

        The button's textures of the "D-Pad & tap to interact" touch control mode have been updated.
Removed cancel flight button from Creative.1.21.20Preview 1.21.10.20
                  New textures have been added for playstation 5 controls to match Ore UI.1.21.30Preview 1.21.30.21
  Added two new down directionals.Preview 1.21.30.23
 New textures have been added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.26
 Added pick block button, which is currently only available in Creative and requires going into touch settings to enable.1.21.60Preview 1.21.60.23
The pick block is now also available in Survival.1.21.70Preview 1.21.70.25
 Added the perspective button, it is used to change the player's perspective, it can be enabled in the touch settings.1.21.80Preview 1.21.80.20
Dismount button and mount button were removed.
  Horse ride and horse exit have been added to mount and exit horses and camels, however only the exit button is used in game.
  Box ride and box exit have been added to enter and exit minecarts and boats, however only exit is used in game.1.21.90Preview 1.21.90.23
    Textures have been changed for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.Preview 1.21.90.25
Removed the ability to press ; to toggling RTX, Vibrant Visuals, and the default.1.21.100Preview 1.21.100.20
Added a key to decline toasts shown on the HUD to keyboard & mouse controls, M by default.
   Textures have been removed for small on keyboard controls to match Ore UI.1.21.111Preview 1.21.110.20
      New textures have been added for keyboard and mouse controls to match Ore UI.

                                 Textures have been removed for keyboard and mouse controls to match Ore UI.1.21.120Preview 1.21.120.23
It is now possible to put items from the inventory to the hotbar using their corresponding number key 1–9.1.21.130Preview 1.21.130.20
                                            New textures have been added for keyboard and mouse controls to match Ore UI.
   Textures have been re-added for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.
 Textures have been changed for keyboard controls to match Ore UI.26.0Preview 26.0.23
Added keybinds for command macros.
Removed the key (M) to decline toasts.26.10Preview 26.10.21
 The texture of the interact button has been changed.
Added a keybind, F4, to open the social drawer.Preview 26.10.23
Added an (unassigned by default) keybind to describe the facing object on the HUD.
        New textures have been added for controller controls to match Ore UI.
            Textures have been changed for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.
                Textures have been changed for playstation controls to match Ore UI.
             Textures have been changed for xbox controls to match Ore UI.Preview 26.10.25
Renamed Describe to Identify.26.20Preview 26.20.27
        New textures have been added for nintendo switch controls to match Ore UI.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education1.7.0
 Added agent button.1.14.31
 Added immersive reading button.1.21.03
 The agent button texture has been updated.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added controls.TU2
Split the sensitivity controls into an in-game sensitivity and an in-menu sensitivity.TU36CU251.281.281.28Patch 7
Added a Safe Sprint option. Depending on the controls layout selected, this option moves either the Change Camera Mode or the Sneak/Dismount away from the stick button, since a lot of people are pressing the stick by accident when they start sprinting.TU53CU431.491.501.49Patch 231.0.3
Players can now rebind any button individually (except host options) like on Java Edition. This gives access to a sprint button and the pick block functionality.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
The pick block function now has a tooltip.???????
The pick block function now also works on entities in Survival and Adventure mode. Previously it only worked in Creative mode.
Issues
Issues relating to "Controls" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Java Edition Screenshots



			The default controls settings menu



			The default key binds menu


Bedrock Edition Screenshots



			The Keyboard & Mouse settings tab



			The Controller settings tab



			The Touch settings tab



			The control customization UI.



			The Control Mode screen in quick world creation



			Controller hints and the cursor in a GUI.



			The message that appears when a controller loses connection.



			Controller hints in Ore UI menu screens


Historical screenshots



			Xbox 360 Edition 1.66.0016.0 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition 1.66.0033.0 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition 0.66.0054.0 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU1 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU5 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU7 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU9 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU12 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU14 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU20 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU31 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU36 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU43 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU46 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU57 controls



			Xbox 360 Edition TU69 controls


See also
Options
Settings
Heads-up display
Debug screen
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition UI refresh
References

 MCPE-90947

 MCPE-90947

 MC-308125

External links
Hotkeys in Minecraft: Java Edition – Minecraft Help Center
Navigation