"Direction" redirects here.  For the direction an entity is facing, see Rotation.
See also: South-east rule and Distance

Coordinates numerically represent a location in a dimension.

Contents

1 World coordinates

1.1 Coordinate system
1.2 Block position
1.3 Displaying coordinates

1.3.1 Java Edition
1.3.2 Bedrock Edition
1.3.3 Minecraft vs Cartesian plane

2 Commands

2.1 Relative world coordinates
2.2 Local coordinates

3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Bedrock Edition
3.3 Legacy Console Edition
3.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Issues
5 Navigation

World coordinates
X, Y and Z coordinate on a Minecraft map.
X and Z axes with directions shown, from a birds-eye view. Red highlights where these axes are different than standard.
World coordinates are expressed as a set of three absolute world coordinates (X Y Z), each number representing a distance along an axis from the world origin.

Coordinate system
World coordinates are based on a grid where three lines or axes intersect at the origin point.

The x-axis indicates the player's distance east (positive) or west (negative) of the origin point—i.e., the longitude,
The z-axis indicates the player's distance south (positive) or north (negative) of the origin point—i.e., the latitude,
The y-axis indicates how high or low (from -64 to 320, with 63 being sea level) the player is—i.e., the elevation,
The unit length of the three axes equals the side of one block. And, in terms of real-world measurement, one block equals 1 cubic meter.
The origin point marks the zero point for the x and z coordinates. Hence, it may be thought of as the 0,0 coordinate:

X-axis = 0
Z-axis = 0
As the player travels south, the z-axis number increases; travel north and it decreases. Similarly, the x-axis number increases as the player travels east and decreases as they travel west. As the player's elevation rises, the y-axis number increases, and as the player's elevation lowers, that number decreases.
An entity's coordinates are actually the coordinates of the center at the bottom of entity's collision box. When the display shows that the player is at position Y=63, then the player's feet are at Y=63.0, and their eyes are at Y=64.62.

Block position
The position of a block is actually the coordinates of the point at the lower northwest corner of the block, that is, the integer coordinates obtained by rounding down the coordinates inside the block.
In Minecraft, decimal coordinates usually needs to be converted into integer coordinates by rounding down, which is called the block position of the coordinate. Note that for positive coordinates a block position starts with 0 (it's so-called 0-based), and for negative coordinates it starts with -1.
There are available interactive calculators (hosted on this wiki) that may be used to convert between different types of coordinate values.

Displaying coordinates
Java Edition
In Java Edition, pressing F3 (or Fn + F3 on Macs and some laptops) brings up a debug screen that shows the player's current coordinates (XYZ) and rotation in the upper left part of the screen. It also shows other useful in-game information, like the block position of the player, and the position of this block within the current chunk. The debug screen also replaces the crosshair with a display of these three directions: +X in red, +Y in green, +Z in blue (eastward, upward, and southward, respectively). Some information can be hidden using /gamerule reduced_debug_info true command.



			Screenshot showing the debug information, with coordinates XYZ, Facing, and Block position.



			Debug screen when reduced_debug_info is true.


Bedrock Edition
In Bedrock Edition, the block position of the player can be displayed by changing the world options. The coordinates are displayed in a box in the top left, if the "Show Coordinates" option is turned on in the game settings screen or /gamerule showcoordinates true is used.
The coordinates can also be shown in the chat by enabling "Copy Coordinate UI" in the creator settings, which is independent from the world options. The player's coordinates are shown with two decimals, and the player can also choose to show the coordinates of the block the player is currently facing. Both coordinates can also be copied with a customizable hotkey, Ctr + ⌥ Alt + C for the player's coordinates and Ctr + ⌥ Alt + X for the facing coordinates by default.



			The block position of player shown in Bedrock Edition.



			The chat with "Copy Coordinate UI" enabled.


Minecraft vs Cartesian plane
If you have taken or are taking an algebra class, you may think of "north" in Minecraft as the same as "up" on a standard cartesian (x,y) plane - the "graph" in algebra class.  This is incorrect thinking but also a very understandable guess - after all on maps in the real world "up" is "north" by general convention.
If you look at the world map on minecraft from above and note the negative and positive values, Minecraft is actually rotated 90 degrees (a quarter turn) to the right from the Cartesian plane.  Going north in minecraft gives you negative z-axis numbers in Minecraft, whereas going up on a cartesian plane gives you positive numbers.

Commands
Some commands use require the player to specify coordinates. They can be expressed explicitly, using absolute world coordinates, or relative to the command source, using relative world coordinates or local coordinates.

Relative world coordinates
When specifying coordinates, each coordinate can alternatively be expressed as a relative world coordinate, written in tilde notation (~ΔX ~ΔY ~ΔZ). A number following a tilde (~) describes an offset from execution position along one of the world axes, and a lone tilde assumes an offset of 0.
For example, the position 32 blocks NNE ~10 ~ ~-30 means "10 blocks east (+X) and 30 blocks north (–Z) of here." And ~ ~ ~ means the command's current position.
Relative world coordinates can mix with absolute coordinates; for example, /tp ~ 64 ~ keeps the sender's X and Z positions unchanged but teleports them to an absolute height of 64 blocks.
The /execute command can update a command's current position, changing the meaning of ~ ~ ~.

Local coordinates
The other way to describe positions is with local coordinates, written in caret notation (^ΔXlocal ^ΔYlocal ^ΔZlocal).
Like relative coordinates, these describe positions relative to where a command is executed from, but with different directions. A number following a caret (^) is an offset within a moving, entity-centric frame: This coordinate system is centered at the executor's position, with +Xlocal directed to its left, +Ylocal directed upward, and +Zlocal directed in the direction the sender faces. (Note that an entity with rotation 0 0 has its local frame aligned with the world frame.)
Described in other terms, these coordinates express ^ΔSway ^ΔHeave ^ΔSurge
For example, /tp ^ ^ ^5 teleports the player 5 blocks forward. If they turn around and repeat the command, they are teleported back to where they started.
In Java Edition, pressing F3+B displays the +Zlocal direction for all entities as a blue ray centered on their heads.
Local coordinates cannot be mixed with world coordinates (e.g. ^ 0 ^,  ^ 0 ~1), and attempting so alerts the typist, "Cannot mix world & local coordinates (everything must either use ^ or not)." So such a command fails to be parsed. However, this effect can be achieved using /execute rotated ~ 0 to "globalize" the y coordinate, and /execute rotated 0 ~ to "globalize" the x and z coordinates. For example, /execute rotated ~ 0 run tp ^ ^ ^3 teleports the player 3 blocks in forward, but at the same Y level.
A command's execution position, rotation, dimension, and anchor all can change the effect of using ^ ^ ^. These can be updated by the /execute command.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition Infdev20100630-1835
Spawn Y is now set to 64 if it is at or below 0.Java Edition Alphav1.2.3
Coordinates now appear on the debug screen.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Positive X is changed from west to east1.1317w50a
Local coordinates can now be specified in commands using ^.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.31
Added coordinates as a world toggle.

Coordinates can now be enabled from the command /gamerule showCoordinates and appear in the top left corner of the screen.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.8
Showing coordinates no longer requires cheats to be enabled.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU2CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Coordinates are displayed at the top corner of a map.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Coordinates are displayed at the bottom Touch Screen alongside the map and hotbar.
Issues
Issues relating to "Coordinates" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Navigation