This is an index of related pages that share a common conceptual attribute. Unlike disambiguation pages, it can be linked to internally if the article text is relevant to all items in the index.However, if an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.
Copper blocks and copper ore (floor and walls), raw copper (center dropped item), and copper ingots (left and right dropped items)
All copper blocks, mobs and items (excluding waxed and April Fools' blocks)
Copper is a metal found in the Overworld that is used to craft copper armor, copper tools, building blocks and other items, as well as to create copper golems. Most blocks made from copper oxidize slowly over time, changing their appearance.
Copper generates naturally as copper ore, which drops raw copper that can be smelted into ingots. Additionally, copper blocks―many of which are fully oxidized―can be found abundantly in trial chambers.
Most copper blocks oxidize; they have four stages when placed. Some of these blocks have extra effects from these stages, e.g., copper bulbs get dimmer as they oxidize. Copper blocks can also be waxed to prevent oxidation until the wax is scraped off by an axe, or an axe can be used to bring the oxidation stage down by 1 temporarily.
The four stages:

Unaffected
Exposed
Weathered
Oxidized
Contents

1 Minecraft

1.1 Items

1.1.1 Gear and tools

1.2 Blocks

1.2.1 Oxidizing blocks

1.3 Minecraft Education
1.4 Mob
1.5 Structure
1.6 Gameplay
1.7 Mentioned
1.8 Removed
1.9 April Fools
1.10 Other

2 Minecraft Dungeons II
3 See also
4 Navigation

Minecraft
Items
Raw Copper – an item dropped from mining copper ore.
Copper Ingot – an item created by smelting raw copper or by killing drowned and copper golems.
Copper Nugget – obtained by smelting copper tools and armor.
Bolt Armor Trim – an item that is duplicated using a block of copper.
Gear and tools
Spyglass – an item crafted with two copper ingots and an amethyst shard that can be used to zoom in on distant objects.
Brush – a tool crafted with a stick, a  copper ingot and a feather. It can be used to brush suspicious blocks and can also be used on armadillos to obtain armadillo scutes.
Copper Axe
Copper Hoe
Copper Pickaxe
Copper Shovel
Copper Spear
Copper Sword
Copper Helmet
Copper Chestplate
Copper Leggings
Copper Boots
Copper Horse Armor
Copper Nautilus Armor
Blocks
Copper Torch
Block of Raw Copper – a block used for compact raw copper storage.
Copper Ore – an ore that can be found underground.
Deepslate Copper Ore – the deepslate variant of copper ore.
Oxidizing blocks
Block of Copper – used to compact copper.
Chiseled Copper – a decorative variant of copper blocks.
Copper Bulb – a light-emitting block, toggled by a redstone signal.
Copper Door – a door that can be activated by redstone or the player.
Copper Grate – a decorative, transparent block.
Copper Trapdoor – a trapdoor that can be activated by redstone or the player.
Cut Copper – a decorative block.
Cut Copper Slab – a decorative slab.
Cut Copper Stairs – a decorative stairs block.
Copper Bars – a variant of iron bars that oxidizes over time.
Copper Chain - a variant of the chain that oxidizes over time.
Copper Chest – a variant of the chest, used by copper golems to sort items.
Copper Golem Statue – a block created when a copper golem fully oxidizes.
Copper Lantern – a variant of the lantern that oxidizes over time.
Lightning Rod - a block used to divert lightning strikes.
Minecraft Education
Copper – an element in  Minecraft Education and Bedrock Edition.
Mob
Copper Golem – a buildable mob that takes items from copper chests and sorts them into regular chests.
 Copper Golems oxidize over time.
Structure
Trial Chambers – Overworld underground structures made out of waxed blocks of copper and their oxidized variants, containing combat challenges in the form of trial spawners.
Gameplay
Copper tier
Copper armor material
Mentioned
Copper Button – an unimplemented block that would have been added if the copper golem had won the mob vote at Minecraft Live 2021.
Removed
Copper Horn – an item that could play different melodies depending on which goat horn it was crafted with.
April Fools
Copper Spleaves – a joke item in Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (Vote Update) which broke upon contact with entities, found in Lunar Bases.
Copper Sink – a joke item in Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (Vote Update) which could delete copper-based items.
Filled Copper Sink – the filled version of the copper sink in Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (Vote Update) which could delete copper-based items.
Potone Copper Ore, a variant of copper ore appearing in 24w14potato.
Copper Trap- a joke block in Java Edition 26w14a.
Other
Copper Collection challenge
Copper Collector
File:PersonaSprite oxidized-copper-collector.pngOxidized Copper Collector
Copper Cape
The Copper Age
Minecraft Dungeons II
Copper Monstrosity
Copper Cube[unofficial name]
See also
Coal (disambiguation)
Diamond (disambiguation)
Emerald (disambiguation)
Iron
Gold
Netherite
Tutorial:Drowned farming
Navigation