This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Coral Crafters Skin Pack

Skins

8

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

June 8, 2018

{
    "title": "Coral Crafters Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "8",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 8, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Coral Crafters Skin Pack is a skin pack that includes 8 ocean-themed skins, celebrating the release of the Update Aquatic. As part of Mojang's Coral Crafters campaign to help the oceans, net proceeds of the skin pack's sale were contributed to The Nature Conservancy, a non-profit environmental organization. At some point, the skin pack was delisted.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History
4 Gallery

4.1 Promotional artwork

5 References
6 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Coral Diver

A diver wearing a glass block.

Coral Statue

A statue overgrowing with sea grass and coral.

Dolphin Costume

A seemingly short figure wearing a dolphin costume, with their face peeking out.

Kelp Statue

A statue entangled in kelp.

Living Ocean

A humanoid figure made entirely out of water, with tropical fish swimming inside.

Tropical slimes possess a similar concept, complete with the tropical fish.

Ocean Explorer

Similar to Coral Diver, but with more exposed skin.

Sea Pickle Wanderers

A creature resembling a sea pickle.

Sea Turtle Costume

Similar to Dolphin Costume, but with a turtle.

Quotes
“A selection of sea-worthy skins to celebrate the Update Aquatic! Explore the oceans as a dolphin or turtle, or opt for a statue skin – covered in kelp or coral! Take a deep dive with the Ocean Explorer, Coral Diver and more! Net proceeds will go to support The Nature Conservancy’s efforts to protect and restore coral reefs, learn more at https://aka.ms/coralcrafters.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock EditionJune 8, 2018
The Coral Crafters Skin Pack is released on the Marketplace.?
The skin pack gets delisted from the Marketplace.
Gallery
Promotional artwork



			Promotional render of the Coral Diver.



			Promotional render of the Coral Statue.



			Promotional render of the Dolphin Costume.



			Promotional render of the Kelp Statue.



			Promotional render of the Living Ocean.



			Promotional render of the Ocean Explorer.



			Promotional render of the Sea Pickle Wanderer.



			Promotional render of the Sea Turtle Costume.



			Key art of the skin pack without text.



			Tertiary key art.



			Promotional renders of four skins.


References

 "New Aquatic Skins Out Today!"   (Archive)  by Tom Stone  – minecraft.net, June 8, 2018.

 "TNC and Minecraft Partner for Conservation" (§ Past Campaigns)    – The Nature Conservancy.

Navigation