This article is about the descriptions shown in Pocket Edition.   For their Legacy Console Edition equivalents, see Legacy Console Edition descriptions.



This page describes content that has been removed and was only present in earlier versions of Bedrock Edition. 
Item descriptions from crafting/stonecutting were removed in Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha, and from smelting in a later update.

In alpha builds of Pocket Edition, crafting interfaces held descriptions for the item to be crafted.

Contents

1 List

1.1 Notes

2 History
3 References
4 Navigation

List
Below is a table of all item descriptions. Descriptions for uncraftable items also appear to exist despite not having anywhere to be displayed.
All items are listed in the order as they are found in the en_US.lang file, which means blocks and items are not grouped by material or utility. The table is sortable and can be sorted alphabetically.

Respective items
Translation key
Description

wooden swordstone swordiron swordgolden sworddiamond sword
desc.sword
Deals more damage than by hand.

wooden shovelstone shoveliron shovelgolden shoveldiamond shovel
desc.shovel
Used to dig dirt, grass, sand, gravel and snow faster than by hand.

wooden pickaxestone pickaxeiron pickaxegolden pickaxediamond pickaxe
desc.pickaxe
Required to mine stone-related blocks and ore.

wooden axestone axeiron axegolden axediamond axe
desc.hatchet
Used to chop wood-related blocks faster than by hand.

wooden hoestone hoeiron hoegolden hoediamond hoe
desc.hoe
Used to till dirt and grass blocks to prepare for crops.

wooden door
desc.doorwood
Wooden doors are activated by using, hitting them or with Redstone.

iron door
desc.dooriron
Iron doors can only be opened by Redstone, buttons or switches.

iron helmet
desc.helmet
Gives the user 1.5 Armor when worn.

iron chestplate
desc.chestplate
Gives the user 4 Armor when worn.

iron leggings
desc.leggings
Gives the user 3 Armor when worn.

iron boots
desc.boots
Gives the user 1.5 Armor when worn.

gold ingotiron ingot
desc.ingot
A shiny ingot which can be used to craft tools made from this material.

block of goldblock of ironblock of diamondlapis lazuli block
desc.block
Used as an expensive building block or compact storage of the ore.

oak pressure plate
desc.pressureplate
Used to send an electrical charge when stepped on by a player, an animal, or a monster. Wooden Pressure Plates can also be activated by dropping something on them.

wooden stairs
desc.stairs
Used for compact staircases.

stone brick stairs
desc.stairsstonebricksmooth
Used for compact staircases.

nether brick stairs
desc.stairsnetherbrick
Used for compact staircases.

sandstone stairs
desc.stairssandstone
Used for compact staircases.

quartz stairs
desc.stairsquartzblock
Used for compact staircases.

stone slabcobblestone slaboak wooden slabspruce wooden slabbirch wooden slabjungle wooden slabbricks slabsandstone slabstone bricks slabquartz slabfake wood slab
desc.slab
Used for making long staircases.

none
desc.halfslab
Used for compact staircases.

torch
desc.torch
Used to create light. Torches also melt snow and ice.

planks, all types
desc.wood
Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things.

sandstonesmooth sandstonechiseled sandstone
desc.sandstonedesc.sandstone.addon
Used as a building material.Is not influenced by gravity like normal Sand.

none
desc.structblock
Used as a building material.

stick
desc.stick
Used to craft torches, arrows, signs, ladders, fences and as handles for tools and weapons.

bed
desc.bed
Used to sleep until dawn. Changes your spawn point to the bed's position.

crafting table
desc.craftingtable
Allows you to craft a more varied selection of items than the normal crafting.

furnace
desc.furnace
Allows you to smelt ore, create charcoal and glass, and cook fish and porkchops.

chest
desc.chest
Stores blocks and items inside.

fences, all typesfence gates, all types
desc.fence
Used as a barrier that cannot be jumped over.

ladder
desc.ladder
Used to climb vertically.

oak trapdooriron trapdoor
desc.trapdoor
Work like normal doors, but are a one by one block and lay flat on the ground.

sign
desc.sign
Shows text entered by you or other players.

glowstone
desc.glowstone
Used to create brighter light than torches. Melts snow/ice and can be used underwater.

tnt
desc.tnt
Used to cause explosions. Activated after placing by hitting, or with an electrical charge.

bowl
desc.bowl
Used to hold mushroom stew, beetroot soup. You keep the bowl when the stew has been eaten.

bucket
desc.bucket
Used to hold and transport water, lava and milk.

flint and steel
desc.flintandsteel
Used to detonate TNT.

fishing rod
desc.fishingrod
Used to catch fish.

clock
desc.clock
Displays positions of the Sun and Moon.

compass
desc.compass
Points to your start point.

map
desc.map
Creates an image of an area explored while held. This can be used for path-finding.

bow
desc.bow
Allows for ranged attacks by using arrows.

arrow
desc.arrow
Used as ammunition for bows.

mushroom stew
desc.mushroomstew
Restores 5 hearts.

cookie
desc.cookie
Restores 0.5 Hearts. Can be stacked up to 8 times.

cake
desc.cake
Restores 1.5 Hearts. Can be used 6 times.

sugar
desc.sugar
Used in the cake recipe.

bread
desc.bread
Restores 2.5 Hearts.

golden apple
desc.goldenapple
Restores 10 Hearts.

lever
desc.lever
Used to send an electrical charge by being turned on or off. Stays in the on or off state until pressed again.

redstone torch
desc.redstonetorch
Constantly sends an electrical charge, or can be used as a receiver/transmitter when connected to the side of a block.

redstone repeater
desc.redstonerepeater
Used in Redstone circuits as repeater, a delayer, and/or a diode

buttons
desc.button
Used to send an electrical charge by being pressed. Stays activated for approximately a second before shutting off again.

dispenser
desc.dispenser
Used to hold and shoot out items in a random order when given a Redstone charge.

note block
desc.noteblock
Plays a note when triggered. Hit it to change the pitch of the note. Placing this on top of different blocks changes the type of instrument.

rail
desc.rail
Used to guide minecarts.

powered rail
desc.poweredrail
When powered, accelerates minecarts that pass over it. When unpowered, causes minecarts to stop on it.

detector rail
desc.detectorrail
Functions like a Pressure Plate (sends a Redstone signal when powered) but can only be activated by a minecart.

minecart
desc.minecart
Used to transport you, an animal, or a monster along rails.

minecart with chest
desc.minecartwithchest
Used to transport goods along rails.

minecart with furnace
desc.minecartwithfurnace
Moves along rails and can push other minecarts when coal is put in it.

boat
desc.boat
Used to travel in water more quickly than swimming.

wool, all colors
desc.wool
Collected from sheep, and can be colored with dyes.

white wool
desc.woolstring
Used as a building material and can be colored with dyes. Can be easily obtained from Sheep.

ink sac
desc.dyepowder.black
Used as a dye to create black wool.

cactus green
desc.dyepowder.green
Used as a dye to create green wool.

cocoa beans
desc.dyepowder.brown
Used as a dye to create brown wool.

light gray dye
desc.dyepowder.silver
Used as a dye to create silver wool.

dandelion yellow
desc.dyepowder.yellow
Used as a dye to create yellow wool.

rose red
desc.dyepowder.red
Used as a dye to create red wool.

bone meal
desc.dyepowder.white
Used to instantly grow crops and flowers. Can be used in dye recipes.

pink dye
desc.dyepowder.pink
Used as a dye to create pink wool.

orange dye
desc.dyepowder.orange
Used as a dye to create orange wool.

lime dye
desc.dyepowder.lime
Used as a dye to create lime wool.

gray dye
desc.dyepowder.gray
Used as a dye to create gray wool.

light gray dye
desc.dyepowder.lightgray
Used as a dye to create light gray wool.

light blue dye
desc.dyepowder.lightblue
Used as a dye to create light blue wool.

cyan dye
desc.dyepowder.cyan
Used as a dye to create cyan wool.

purple dye
desc.dyepowder.purple
Used as a dye to create purple wool.

magenta dye
desc.dyepowder.magenta
Used as a dye to create magenta wool.

lapis lazuli
desc.dyepowder.blue
Used as dye to create Blue Wool.

jukebox
desc.jukebox
Plays Music Discs.

diamond
desc.diamonds
Use these to create very strong tools, weapons or armor

diamond
desc.diamond
Use these to create very strong tools, weapons or armor

jack o'lantern
desc.jackolantern
Used to create brighter light than torches. Melts snow/ice and can be used underwater.

paper
desc.paper
Used to create books and maps.

book
desc.book
Used to create a bookshelf.

bookshelf
desc.bookshelf
Used as decoration.

painting
desc.picture
Used as decoration.

gold ore
desc.ore_gold
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better, then smelted in a furnace to produce gold ingots.

iron ore
desc.ore_iron
Can be mined with a stone pickaxe or better, then smelted in a furnace to produce iron ingots.

coal ore
desc.ore_coal
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect coal.

lapis lazuli ore
desc.ore_lapis
Can be mined with a stone pickaxe or better to collect lapis lazuli.

diamond ore
desc.ore_diamond
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better to collect diamonds.

redstone ore
desc.ore_redstone
Can be mined with an iron pickaxe or better to collect redstone dust.

stone
desc.stone
Can be mined with a pickaxe to collect cobblestone.

dirt
desc.dirt
Collected using a shovel. Can be used for construction.

saplings
desc.sapling
Can be planted and it eventually grows into a tree.

bedrock
desc.bedrock
This cannot be broken.

lava
desc.lava
Sets fire to anything that touches it. Can be collected in a bucket.

sand
desc.sand
Collected using a shovel. Can be smelted into glass using the furnace. Is affected by gravity if there is no other tile underneath it.

gravel
desc.gravel
Collected using a shovel. Sometimes produces flint when dug up. Is affected by gravity if there is no other tile underneath it.

logs
desc.log
Chopped using an axe, and can be crafted into planks or used as a fuel.

glass
desc.glass
Created in a furnace by smelting sand. Breaks when attempting to mine it.

glass pane
desc.thinglass
Breaks when attempting to mine it.

cobblestone
desc.stone_brick
Mined from stone using a pickaxe. Can be used to construct a furnace or stone tools.

brick block
desc.brick
Baked from clay in a furnace.

clay
desc.clay
Can be baked into bricks in a furnace.

snow
desc.snow
A compact way to store snowballs.

snow
desc.top_snow
Can be dug with a shovel to create snowballs.

double tallgrass
desc.tall_grass
Sometimes produces seeds when broken.

dandelionrose
desc.flower
Can be crafted into a dye.

red mushroombrown mushroom
desc.mushroom
Can be crafted with a bowl to make stew.

obsidian
desc.obsidian
Can only be mined with a diamond pickaxe. Is produced by the meeting of water and still lava, and is used to build a portal.

monster spawner
desc.mob_spawner
Spawns monsters into the world.

redstone
desc.redstone_dust
Is placed on the ground to carry an electrical charge.

crops
desc.crops
When fully grown, crops can be harvested to collect wheat.

farmland
desc.farmland
Ground that has been prepared ready to plant seeds.

cactus
desc.cactus
Can be crafted to create a dye.

sugar canes
desc.reeds
Can be crafted to create sugar.

pumpkin
desc.pumpkin
Can be worn as a helmet or crafted with a torch to create a Jack-O-Lantern.

netherrack
desc.hell_rock
Burns forever if set alight.

soul sand
desc.hell_sand
Slows the movement of anything walking over it.

portal
desc.portal
Standing in the portal allows you to pass between the overworld and the nether.

apple
desc.apple
Restores health, and can be crafted into a golden apple.

melon
desc.melon
Can be broken into melon slices.

coal
desc.coal
Used as a fuel in a furnace, or crafted to make a torch.

charcoal
desc.charcoal
Used as a renewable fuel in a furnace, or crafted to make a torch.

string
desc.string
Collected by killing a spider, and can be crafted into a bow.

feather
desc.feather
Collected by killing a chicken, and can be crafted into an arrow.

gunpowder
desc.sulphur
Collected by killing a creeper, and can be crafted into TNT.

shears
desc.shears
Used to obtain wool from sheep and to harvest placeable Leaf blocks.

seeds
desc.seeds
Can be planted in farmland to grow crops.

wheat
desc.wheat
Harvested from crops, and can be used to craft food items.

flint
desc.flint
Collected by digging gravel, and can be used to craft a flint and steel.

raw porkchop
desc.porkchopraw
Collected by killing a pig, and can be cooked in a furnace. Restores health.

cooked porkchop
desc.porkchopcooked
Created by cooking a porkchop in a furnace. Restores health.

raw beef
desc.beefraw
Collected by killing a cow, and can be cooked in a furnace. Restores health.

cooked beef
desc.beefcooked
Created by cooking a beef in a furnace. Restores health.

raw chicken
desc.chickenraw
Collected by killing a chicken, and can be cooked in a furnace. Restores health.

cooked chicken
desc.chickencooked
Created by cooking a chicken in a furnace. Restores health.

saddle
desc.saddle
When used on a pig it allows you to ride the pig.

snowball
desc.snowball
Collected by digging snow, and can be thrown.

leather
desc.leather
Collected by killing a cow, and can be crafted into armor.

slimeball
desc.slimeball
Collected by killing a slime.

egg
desc.egg
Dropped randomly by chickens, and can be crafted into food items.

glowstone dust
desc.yellow_dust
Collected by mining Glowstone, and can be crafted to make Glowstone blocks again.

raw fish
desc.fish_raw
Can be eaten to restore health, or cooked in a furnace.

cooked fish
desc.fish_cooked
Created by cooking a raw fish in a furnace. Can be eaten to restore health.

bone
desc.bone
Collected by killing a skeleton. Can be crafted into bone meal.

music discs, all types
desc.record
Collected by getting a skeleton to kill a creeper. Can be played in a jukebox.

terracotta
desc.clayhardened
Can be dyed to make blocks of various colors.

water
desc.water
Extinguishes fire and helps crops grow. Can be collected in a bucket.

leaves
desc.leaves
When broken sometimes drops a sapling which can then be replanted to grow into a tree.

moss stone
desc.moss_stone
Can be used for construction and decoration.

stone bricks
desc.stonebricksmooth
Used as building material.

nether reactor core
desc.netherreactor
Core of the Nether Reactor

glowing obsidian
desc.glowingobsidian
Obsidion [sic] activated by external source.

glowstone
desc.lightgem
Used for illumination.

painting
desc.painting
Used as decoration.

netherrack
desc.hellrock
Is a stone material from the Nether.

nether brick block
desc.netherbrick
Construction block made from Nether bricks.

nether brick
desc.netherbrickitem
Used to form blocks of Nether bricks.

nether quartz
desc.netherquartz
Quartz from the Nether, used to create Blocks of Quartz.

block of quartz
desc.quartzblock
Decorative block, used to create other kinds of Quartz blocks.

chiseled quartz block
desc.quartzBlockChiseled
Decorative block

quartz pillar block
desc.quartzBlockPillar
Decorative block

stonecutter
desc.stonecutter
For crafting stoneblocks.

melon seeds
desc.seedsmelon
Plant more melons.

pumpkin seeds
desc.seedspumpkin
Plant more pumpkins.

carved pumpkin
desc.pumpkin
Can be used to make pumpkin pie and laterns [sic].

Jack o'Lantern
desc.litpumpkin
Pretty latterns [sic] that provides light.

pumpkin pie
desc.pumpkinpie
A very tasty Pie.

carrot
desc.carrot
Eat them or plant them.

potato
desc.potatos
Eat them, plant them or bake them.

baked potato
desc.potatobaked
Made by cooking a potato, can be eaten to restore health.

melon
desc.tile.melon
Can be cut up and eaten.

spruce stairs
desc.stairswoodspruce
Used for compact staircases.

birch stairs
desc.stairswoodbirch
Used for compact staircases.

jungle stairs
desc.stairswoodjungle
Used for compact staircases.

jungle stairs
desc.stairswoodjungle
Used for compact staircases.

acacia stairs
desc.stairswoodacacia
Used for compact staircases.

dark oak stairs
desc.stairswoodbigoak
Used for compact staircases.

cobblestone wallmossy cobblestone wall
desc.cobbleWall
Wall made of stone.

iron bars
desc.fenceiro
A seethrough thin wall. Great for locking out things.

hay bale
desc.hayblock
Used as decoration. A compact way to store Wheat.

block of coal
desc.blockcoal
Can be used in a furnace and is a compact way of storing coal.

beetroot
desc.beetroot
Can be eaten or turned into beetroot soup or red dye.

beetroot soup
desc.beetrootsoup
Restores 5 hearts.

beetroot seeds
desc.seedsbeetroot
Plant more beetroots.

powered rail
desc.goldenrail
Powered rail that boosts minecarts driving over them.

carpets, all colors
desc.woolcarpet
Thin wool carpet that makes your floors more colorful.

Notes

 The following text is listed in the line below this one in en_US.lang:Can also be used for low-level lighting.

 Powered rails use the desc.goldenrail string below.

 Light gray dye uses the desc.dyepowder.silver string above. The following text is listed in the line below this one in en_US.lang:(Note: light gray dye can also be made by combining gray dye with bone meal, letting you make four light gray dyes from every ink sac instead of three.)

 Jack o'lanterns use the desc.litpumpkin string below.

 Melon blocks use the desc.melon string above.

 Jungle wood stairs are listed twice in en_US.lang.

 Cobblestone walls attempted to take their crafting description from desc.tile.cobbleWall, which did not exist.

History
Pocket Edition Alphav0.3.0
Added crafting (MATTIS) with crafting descriptions.v0.3.2

Crafting descriptions are now shown in the furnace UI.

Added desc.emerald: "Use these to create very strong tools, weapons or armor".

Changed desc.ingot from "A shiny ingot which can be used to craft tools made from this material. Created by smelting ore in a furnace." to "A shiny ingot which can be used to craft tools made from this material.".

Split desc.sandstone into desc.sandstone.addon.

Added desc.shears: "Used to obtain wool from sheep and to harvest placeable Leaf blocks.".

Added desc.thinglass: "Will break if you try to mine it.".

Changed desc.wood from "Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things. Can be crafted from any form of wood." to "Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things. Can be crafted from any wood.".
v0.4.0

Changed desc.bed from "Used to forward time from any time at night to morning if all the players in the world are in bed, and changes the spawn point of the player. The colors of the bed are always the same, regardless of the colors of wool used." to "Used to skip to dawn, if all players are sleeping. Changes your spawn point to the bed's position. The colors of the bed are always the same, regardless of the colors of wool used.".

Added desc.beefcooked: "Created by cooking a beef in a furnace. Restores health.".

Added desc.beefraw: "Collected by killing a cow, and can be cooked in a furnace. Restores health.".

Added desc.chickencooked: "Created by cooking a chicken in a furnace. Restores health.".

Added desc.chickenraw: "Collected by killing a chicken, and can be cooked in a furnace. Restores health.".

Changed desc.flintandsteel from "Used to create fire and open a portal once it has been built." to "Used to detonate TNT.".

Changed desc.glass from "Created in a furnace by smelting sand. Can be used for construction, but will break if you try to mine it." to "Created in a furnace by smelting sand. Will break if you try to mine it.".

Renamed desc.porkchop_cooked to desc.porkchopcooked and desc.porkchop_raw to desc.porkchopraw.v0.5.0
Changed desc.chest from "Stores blocks and items inside. Place two chests side by side to create a larger chest with double the capacity." to "Stores blocks and items inside.".

Added desc.glowingobsidian: "Obsidion activated by external source.". [sic]

Added desc.netherreactor: "Core of the Nether Reactor".

Added desc.stonebricksmooth: "Used as building material.".v0.6.0

Added desc.hellrock: "Is a stone material from the Nether.".

Added desc.lightgem: "Used for illumination.".

Added desc.netherbrick: "Construction block made from Nether bricks.".

Added desc.netherbrickitem: "Used to form blocks of Nether bricks.".

Added desc.netherquartz: "Quartz from the Nether, used to create Blocks of Quartz.".

Added desc.painting: "Used as decoration.".

Added desc.quartzBlock: "Decorative block, used to create other kinds of Quartz blocks.".

Added desc.stairsnetherbrick: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairsquartzblock: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairssandstone: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairsstonebricksmooth: "Used for compact staircases.".v0.7.0

Changed desc.bed from "Used to skip to dawn, if all players are sleeping. Changes your spawn point to the bed's position. The colors of the bed are always the same, regardless of the colors of wool used." to "Used to sleep until dawn. Changes your spawn point to the bed's position.".

Changed desc.block from "Allows ingots, gems, or dyes to be crafted into placeable blocks. Can be used as an expensive building block or compact storage of the ore." to "Used as an expensive building block or compact storage of the ore.".

Changed desc.dyepowder.white from "Used to instantly grow crops, trees, tall grass, huge mushrooms and flowers, and can be used in dye recipes." to "Used to instantly grow crops and flowers. Can be used in dye recipes.".

Added desc.melon: "Can be broken into melon slices.".

Renamed desc.quartzBlock to desc.quartzblock.

Added desc.seedsmelon: "Allows for more melons.".

Added desc.stonecutter: "For crafting stoneblocks.". [sic]

Added desc.tile.melon: "Can be cut up and eaten.".

Changed desc.trapdoor from "Activated by using, hitting them or with redstone. They function as normal doors, but are a one by one block and lay flat on the ground." to "Work like normal doors, but are a one by one block and lay flat on the ground.".v0.7.4

Added desc.quartzBlockChiseled: "Decorative block".

Added desc.quartzBlockPillar: "Decorative block".v0.8.0build 1
Added desc.carrot: "Eat them or plant them.".

Added desc.cobbleWall: "Wall made of stone.".

Added desc.fenceiro: "A seethrough thin wall. Great for lockint out things.".

Added desc.hayblock: "Used as decoration. A compact way to store Wheat.".

Added desc.litpumpkin: "Pretty latterns that provides light.".

Added desc.potatos: "Eat them, plant them or bake them.".

Changed desc.pumpkin from "Can be worn as a helmet or crafted with a torch to create a Jack-O-Lantern." to "Can be used to make pumpkin pie and laterns.".

Added desc.pumpkinpie: "A very tasty Pie.".

Changed desc.seedsmelon from "Allows for more melons." to "Plant more melons.".

Added desc.seedspumpkin: "Plant more pumpkins.".

Added desc.stairswoodbirch: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairswoodjungle: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairswoodspruce: "Used for compact staircases.".

Changed desc.wood from "Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things. Can be crafted from any wood." to "Used as a building material and can be crafted into many things.".build 2
Added desc.beetroot: "Can be eaten or turned into beetroot soup or red dye.".

Added desc.beetrootsoup: "Restores 5 hearts.".

Added desc.blockcoal: "Can be used in a furnace and is a compact way of storing coal.".

Changed desc.bowl from "Used to hold mushroom stew. You keep the bowl when the stew has been eaten." to "Used to hold mushroom stew, beetroot soup. You keep the bowl when the stew has been eaten.".

Added desc.seedsbeetroot: "Plant more beetroots.".build 3
Added desc.goldenrail: "Powered rail that boosts minecarts driving over them.".build 4
Added desc.charcoal: "Used as a renewable fuel in a furnace, or crafted to make a torch.".

Changed desc.fenceiro from "A seethrough thin wall. Great for lockint out things." [sic] to "A seethrough thin wall. Great for locking out things.".

Added desc.potatobbaked: "Made by cooking a potato, can be eaten to restore health.".

Added desc.woolcarpet: "Thin wool carpet that makes your floors more colorful.".build 6
Renamed desc.potatobaked to desc.potatoBaked.v0.9.0build 1
Crafting descriptions are no longer visible in the crafting table or stonecutter.

Renamed desc.emerald to desc.diamond.

Renamed desc.potatoBaked to desc.potatobaked.

Added desc.stairswoodacacia: "Used for compact staircases.".

Added desc.stairswoodbigoak: "Used for compact staircases.".build 11
Added desc.clayhardened: "Can be dyed to make blocks of various colors.".v0.11.0build 1
Removed descriptions from furnaces.
Removed all crafting descriptions from language files.
References

 MCPE-2 – No description at Smooth stone in crafting bench

 MCPE-591 – No description for Paintings or Glowstone.

Navigation