Not to be confused with Story Mode:Craft Your Own Adventure!.

Craft Your Own Adventure: Wild Tales

Author(s)

Sofia Dankis
Cristina Anderca
Sophie Austin
Per Landin

Language

English

Genre(s)

Choose Your Own Adventure

Set in

Minecraft

Release date

June 4, 2022

{
    "title": "Craft Your Own Adventure: Wild Tales",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Wikipedia:Sofia Dankis article, displayed as Sofia Dankis)\n* (link to Wikipedia:Cristina Anderca article, displayed as Cristina Anderca)\n* (link to Wikipedia:Sophie Austin article, displayed as Sophie Austin)\n* (link to Wikipedia:Per Landin article, displayed as Per Landin)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Choose Your Own Adventure",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "June 4, 2022",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "CYOA_WILDTALES.jpg"
    ]
}

Craft Your Own Adventure: Wild Tales is a free Minecraft choose-your-own-adventure story promoting The Wild Update. It is authored by Sofia Dankis, Cristina Anderca, Sophie Austin, and Per Landin. The story was published on June 4, 2022 through Twitter.

Contents

1 Plot

1.1 Characters
1.2 South

1.2.1 Characters

1.3 East

1.3.1 Characters

1.4 West

1.4.1 The mangrove swamp
1.4.2 The woodland mansion
1.4.3 Characters

1.5 North

1.5.1 Characters

2 Quotes
3 Gallery

3.1 South
3.2 East
3.3 West
3.4 North

4 References
5 Navigation

Plot
At a camp, the reader and their friends gather around the campfire, with the reader impatiently waiting to listen to their friends' stories one by one. Being picked last to tell a story, all their friends turn their faces toward the reader. They had adventures before, knowing all about saving themselves from ornery goats, sneaking past creepers, and building emergency shelters, but they had to tell a story fast. The reader's sole choice was to get up and go on an adventure. They find themselves at a four-pronged fork where they must go south, east, west, or north..

Characters
Creeper (mentioned)
Goat (mentioned)
 Reader
 Reader's friends
South
If the reader takes the south path, they take three steps and are given the choice of digging straight down or going along the north path instead. If they decided to dig straight down, they mention the various dangers of that action, such as falling into lava or falling fatally onto the floor of a cave. After enough time digging, they "break the wrong block", falling down into a cave and losing several hearts. They turn around and hear the groans of a zombie, which they somehow avoided. They then notice a sculk sensor and decide whether they should jump on it or avoid it. If they chose the former choice, they trigger the sensor, activating a nearby sculk shrieker, causing the Darkness effect, and hearing a rhythmic beat. There, they have a choice of bouncing again or retreating to the surface. This cycle repeats a second time if the reader chose to bounce again, but all choices related to avoiding the sensor leads them back to the surface, offering them the choice of taking one of the three remaining paths. If they chose to bounce again, they hear a burrowing sound, questioning themselves if it was an undiscovered mob like a meerkat or a badger trying to come out of the ground. The emerging creature reveals itself to be a warden, and this gives the reader the choice of hugging it or running away. If they chose to hug it, the warden sends a fatal blow on their chest, killing them. Once they respawned near their bed, the reader realized they were "defeated and empty-handed", but they were eager to tell their story, even if their friends didn't believe them. If they chose to run away, they have the choice of trying to tower up with blocks, press ⌥ Alt+F4, or throw the snowball they left in their inventory. If they decided to tower up, the warden casts its sonic boom on the reader, sending them under the hole they fell from. From there, they towered up, having to tell a story none of their friends believed. The choice of pressing ⌥ Alt+F4 has no effect other than escaping to the home screen of the reader's computer and providing a link to the main article. If they decided to throw a snowball at the warden, they missed, thinking they were doomed. Instead, the warden investigates the landing spot of the snowball and the reader immediately rushes to the surface, trying to tell their friends their inconceivable story.

Characters
Badger (mentioned)
Meerkat (mentioned)
 Reader
 Reader's friends
Warden
Zombie (groaning sound)
East
If the reader chose the eastern path, they come across a swamp. There, they encounter frogs nearby and decide whether to jump into the water or approach one of them. If they chose to jump into the water, they look around the swamp from the water, until they notice something floating. There, they choose to meet the frogs or to fill a bucket with the stuff. If they chose the latter, the stuff reveals itself to be frogspawn and they decide whether to breed more frogs or to find out what happens if the tadpoles in the frogspawn hatched in a different climate. The former choice restarts the cycle of breeding or learning about frogs. If the reader made any choice resulting in them meeting the frogs, they kept staring at one of them until they got startled by a second frog jumping out of the water. There, they decide whether to offer them apples or slimeballs. If they offered them apples, they fail to do so, restarting the cycle of meeting the frogs. If they fed them slimes, they accepted and ate it. Excited to have a new friend, the reader decides to come back to their camp, either walking or jumping. If they walled to their camp, their friends enjoyed the new company by feeding the frog more slimeballs. Watching the frog eat makes the reader hungry, and they find a bowl of suspicious stew left behind by one of their friends. They watch as their friends were happy with their frog, having a stomachache in the process from eating the stew.
If they jumped to their camp, the frog catches their friends off guard, and it jumps around before ending up accidentally going through a nether portal. There, the reader either follows the frog, tries to meet more frogs, or accepts the frog's disappearance. If they decided the second, they restart the cycle of meeting the frogs. If they accepted the frog's fate, they assume that their meeting with the frog ended, but their friendship did not. Meanwhile in the Nether, the frog spend its life ruling over ghasts and piglins. If the reader decided to follow the frog, they find themselves among several hostile mobs, including ghasts and magma cubes. Much to the reader's disbelief, the frog ate one of the magma cubes, leaving behind a froglight. There, the reader has the choice of bringing the froglight back to the camp or learning more about frogs. If they chose the former, their friends stare at them excitedly, and they tell their story, with the light emitted by the froglight.
If the reader made any choice related to learning about frogs and finding out what happens of their spawn hatches in a different climate, they soon wanted to start a quest for knowledge. They pack all their items, including buckets of tadpole, in their boat with chest and row across the ocean until they come across a bamboo jungle. There, they pour the contents of their first bucket in a river, watching the bamboos as they wait for the tadpole to grow. Soon, they find out they spawned a warm frog. Excited, they come back to their boat with the frog only to find out the contents of their chest was stolen. Without losing hope, the reader pulled out a slimeball spared from the looter, breeding the frogs they brought together. This resulted in a tadpole which they brought with them in their bucket. They then travel across the ocean, curious about breeding a frog in a cold biome. They come across a frozen ocean and wait for the tadpole to grow there. It grows into a cold frog, a groundbreaking discovery for the reader who soon learns that frogs take different appearances depending on the biome they grew up in. Back in the camp, the reader spends their time writing books about the nature of frogs, earning the title of "Minecraft’s premiere herpetologist" as they share their story with their friends.

Characters
Cold Frog
Ghast
Magma Cube
Panda
Parrot
Phantom (mentioned)
Piglin (mentioned)
 Reader
 Reader's friends
Tadpole
Temperate Frog
Warm Frog
West
If the reader chose to head west, they hesitate at first to travel to such uncharted land, but their boldness gets the better of them. They place torches, until they get stopped by the setting sun that dazzled them as they went on. They end up on a forking path which leads them either to a mangrove swamp or a woodland mansion.

The mangrove swamp
If the reader chose the path to the swamp, they immediately build a shelter out of mud, and notice a blue glow flying toward them. Thinking it is a phantom, they soon realize it is an allay. They have a choice of letting it in or not. If they chose to let it in, they soon wake up in the morning needing to expand their house either by hunting for food or by gathering mangrove leaves for decoration.
If they chose to hunt, the reader finds out the swamp is scarce in food, and their only possession in their inventory is an egg. They have a choice of giving the allay the egg or throw it out. If they chose the latter, they shift to decorating their hut, and if they chose the former, the allay disappears mysteriously in search for more eggs. In the meanwhile, the reader has to expand their mud hut, choosing to build a basement for the eggs or build a mud tower nearby. If they chose to throw the egg, they eventually discard it, shifting their choice to decorating their hut. If they chose to build a basement, they dig through the marsh floor to find out they are in an unexpectedly dark place. There, they have the choice of waiting for the allay to bring the eggs or give it a torch upon coming back. If they chose the former, the reader wakes up to what they called the Eggpocalypse because of the loads of eggs falling on them. They then find out that the allay brought them the eggs, having the choice of building a tower or giving the allay a torch. If they chose the latter, the allay comes back with a lot of torches that the reader feels suspiciously familiar with. They then choose to illuminate their basement or the swamp. If they chose to place torches around the swamp, they begin thinking about all sorts of inspirations to continue expanding their mud hut, from the light of the campfire, the sun, and the moon, to a cow they met earlier that day. They spend the entire night building, leaving them with a choice of keeping building or to go to sleep. The choice of building repeats the choice, and the choice of sleeping leads them back to the camp to tell their friends about their adventure in the west. The friends' excitement about mud is soon overshadowed by the building the reader built earlier. If they chose to illuminate their basement, they soon realize their hut became more and more important because of the furniture they placed in the basement. Back to camp, they tell their story to their friends, who periodically visit the reader's hut and gain an inspiration for building their own.
If they chose to gather leaves, they find out the mangrove swamp they are in is full of leaves. They bring out their shears and tediously gather leaves, sinking repeatedly in the murky water and draining their hunger bar. There, they chose to give the allay the task of gathering the fallen leaves or shift to gathering wood. If they chose the former, the allay soon became useful company. The reader shears the leaves while the allay gathers the dropped leaves on the water. They soon realize they need to perform a different project, either building more on the swamp or traveling somewhere else. If they chose the former, the reader takes out their building materials and start building miscellaneous builds, such as a mockup mangrove tree. They come back to the camp only to find out the story they told was inconceivable. Their friends only believed after the reader suggested to visit the swamp and see their builds. If they chose the latter, the reader finds out there is an ocean further into the west, crafting a boat with chest filled with leaves and rowing to a nearby secluded island. They build several builds there, ready to tell stories for their friends the following day.
If the reader chose not to let the allay in, they sleep through the night. After waking up, they realize they have to expand their hut, either with wood or even more mud.
If they chose to gather wood, the reader cuts down a nearby tree, discovering the unusual nature of mangrove wood. There, they are in need for more wood, either looking for more wood or discovering new variants of mud. If they chose the former, they discovered a mangrove propagule hanging from a tree. They choose to either bring the propagules with them or look somewhere else to gather wood. There, if they chose the former, they plant propagules everywhere they could find, leaving them with the choice of expanding the swamp or bringing the propagules back to the camp. Upon choosing the latter, the reader takes all their items on their boat with chest and returns yo their camp where they share their story and propagules with their friends. If they chose to find more wood, they head to a group of trees a few minutes away, gathering wood only to get lost. There, they head to the east where they choose the eastern path leading them to a regular swamp.
If the reader made any choice related to mud, they either spend their time looking at the mud or craft more variants out of it. If they chose the former, they think more about the mud, sinking two pixels in the process and getting shocked as their diamond boots turned muddy. This leaves them with the choice of looking for more variants or bringing the mud to the camp. If they chose the latter in the first mud choice, they bring out their crafting table and merge the mud with wheat to create packed mud. This gives them a wide variety of crafting choices, including mud bricks, mud brick slabs, mud walls, mud stairs, and even mud cakes, although they did not want to try the last one. With their new discovery, the reader has to either bring their mud blocks to the camp or build a mud tower. If they chose the former, their shovel breaks, but their friends are impressed by the discovery. Mud obstacle courses and mud statues are built in the reader's honor, and some manage to craft terracotta out of mud.
If the reader ever decided to build a mud tower, they get the idea from a pillager outpost they visited earlier. They call their new tower a "thrillager mudpost" and have the choice of either building higher or placing a note block. If they chose the former, they build so high that they reach the build limit, leaving them with the choice of going to sleep or exploring the woodland mansion. If they chose the former, they somehow wake up in their hut, eager to share the story with their friends in the camp. There, the reader's friends are in awe because of the tower they built, periodically visiting it. If they chose to craft a note block, they play "Sweden", only to realize that it is their sole music track. They then come across the allay, who brought with it a lot of eggs after it heard the music. The reader then plans to bring the eggs to the camp, with their sole choice of jumping down the tower. Their excitement made them take little damage, and after they reached the camp, a dinner party is held in honor of the eggs.

The woodland mansion
If the reader chose to head to the woodland mansion, they hit several trees along the way before finally reaching the mansion, having the choice of making noise to see if anyone is inside, or sneaking inside. If they chose the former, they type in all caps in the chat, breaking windows, and blowing up TNT. The reader finds themselves "overillagered" as they are swarmed by vindicators and evokers, and they rush back to the camp only to get ridiculed.
If they chose to sneak in, they explore the wide halls stretching several blocks. They hear grumpy music-like noises nearby, leaving them with the choice of ignoring the noise or investigating it. If they chose the former, the reader finds the place frightening, fleeing the mansion back to the camp to tell their sinister quest to their friends, who already know mansions are scary. If they chose to investigate, they discover a prison cell full of twelve allays inside, presumably locked by illagers. There, they either ignore them or free them, and ignoring them causes the reader to flee the mansion. If they decided to free the allays, they enter the prison cell, leaving the door open. They give a cookie to one of the allays, exiting the mansion and either bringing it to their shelter in the mangrove swamp or back to camp. If they chose the latter, the reader's friends are impressed by the allay, who distributes cookies for the breakfast.

Characters
Allay
Cow (mentioned)
Creeper
Evoker
Phantom (mentioned)
 Reader
 Reader's friends
Skeleton
Vindicator
Zombie
North
If the reader chose to go north, they find a cave with a mineshaft inside, deciding to either ignore it and explore the other parts of the cave, or to go inside the mineshaft.
If they decided to go into the mineshaft, they take a damaging fall and find themselves in a dark place.
If the reader decided to ignore the mineshaft, they discover a stream of water flowing toward a lush cave, choosing to go either left or right. If they went left, they discover cave vines and decide either to leave them or mine the glow berries hanging from the vines. Mining all the vines made the cave dark, and the reader still hears the water flowing, deciding whether or not to follow it. Both choices leave them stranded in the cave, ending up in the deep dark. They discover mysterious sculk blocks and decide whether to mine them or leave them be. If they chose the latter, they escape the cave and go safely back to the surface, telling their friends the story back in the camp. If they decided to mine them, they earn experience but the sculk disappeared. They decide whether to mine more, repeating the choice, or to move on. Upon choosing the latter, the reader hears mysterious noise and either investigates or comes back to the surface. If they did the former, they find a chest in an alcove, hesitating to open it due to the possibility of being trapped. If they left the chest alone, they leave the cave, and if they opened the chest, they find a pickaxe enchanted with Silk Touch, useful for the reader to mine the sculk. Hence, they have a choice of leaving the sculk alone, or mine it and show it off to their friends back to the surface. There, if they made the latter choice, they encounter a disruptive bat near the campfire, either letting it be, causing their friends to attack it, or attacking it thelselves. At both choices, the bat dies, but sculk spreads across the camp from the sculk catalyst the reader brought with them.
If the reader chose the right path in the lush cave, they try to be careful because of the few hearts remaining. They stumble upon more water, seeing a large shadow on their way and deciding whether to investigate it or to go left.
If the reader made the choice of leaving the sculk alone, they have the choice of going back to the surface or to keep exploring. If they chose the latter, they take a damaging fall and, to their fright, they hear noises and see a shadow at their right, and the path splits into two. If the reader went right, they find themselves in an ancient city. If the reader went left, they have to flee from it, going up or down. If they chose to go up, they decide to either leave the cave or to go back down. As they go down, the reader regains their courage, either investigating the shadow or running away. If they chose the latter, they either go back to the surface or to keep exploring. If they chose to keep exploring, they either choose to actually investigate the shadow or give up and go back to the surface.
While investigating, the reader finds a chest with a music disc inside, either taking the disc back to camp or listening to it. If they chose to listen, they emit loud noise, causing the shadow to approach them. There, the reader either flees back to the surface or to keep listening. If they chose the latter, the shadow approached more as they danced in the ruins, and the reader chooses to ignore it (leaving them with the same choices as encountering the warden in the southern path) or to flee. If they ever fled, they go up to the water flow, then to the opening of the cave where they rush back to camp to tell their friends the story.
If the reader ever made a choice leaving them in an ancient city, they find out it has interesting blocks for the camp, choosing to either mine cobbled deepslate or reinforced deepslate. If they chose the former, they realize reinforced deepslate was a worse option for their half broken pickaxe and collect four blocks of them, deciding to collect more or to stop. Choosing the latter will leave the reader with the choice of leaving the cave or keeping exploring. If they decided to mine reinforced deepslate, they collect one block of it. Both choices break the reader's pickaxe, and reveal a chest with a Silk Touch pickaxe and the usual choices of opening the chest or leaving it alone.

Characters
Bat
Big shadow
 Reader
 Reader's friends
Quotes
“Welcome to Craft Your Own Adventure, the Minecraft.net story that you control! Start below and then pick the option that appeals to you the most. It will take you to a new part of the story, and you will be presented with more options. Keep making your picks, don’t scroll ahead, and watch out for wardens! The Wild Tales await…„ — Introduction
Gallery
South


























East






West






















North


































References

 "Where in the wild will you wander?The Wild Tales await... Craft your own adventure right now:📖 redsto.ne/wild-tales"  – @Minecraft (Minecraft) on X (formerly Twitter), June 4, 2022

 "Craft Your Own Adventure: Wild Tales"     by Sofia Dankis, Cristina Anderca, Sophie Austin, and Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, June 2, 2022.

Navigation