"World settings" redirects here.  For the customizable options for existing worlds in Java Edition, see World Options.  For world settings in Bedrock Edition, see Edit world.
The Create New World screen is a menu screen that allows the player to create a new world. It has various customization options, mainly game rules and generation settings.

Contents

1 Java Edition

1.1 Game
1.2 World
1.3 More

2 Bedrock Edition

2.1 General
2.2 Advanced

2.2.1 Seed templates

2.3 Multiplayer

2.3.1 Settings

2.4 Cheats

2.4.1 Cheat settings

2.5 Resource packs

2.5.1 Active

2.5.1.1 Available

2.6 Behavior packs

2.6.1 Active
2.6.2 Available

2.7 Experiments

2.7.1 Gameplay
2.7.2 Add-on creators

3 History

3.1 Java Edition
3.2 Bedrock Edition
3.3 Minecraft Education
3.4 Legacy Console Edition

4 Issues
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Bedrock Editor
6.4 Minecraft Education
6.5 Historical screenshots

6.5.1 Java Edition
6.5.2 Bedrock Edition
6.5.3 Minecraft Education

7 Notes
8 See also
9 References
10 Navigation

Java Edition
Respective options for world creation are organized into three different tabs: "Game", "World", and "More".

Game
The "Game" tab.
World Name
Allows the name of the world to be set to a custom string. This name correlates to the folder in .minecraft/saves where the world save can be found. The default name entered into this text box is "New World".
Game Mode
Allows the default game mode of the world to be changed. Clicking the button cycles through to the next game mode. The available game modes are Survival, Hardcore, and Creative. The default selection is Survival.
Difficulty
Allows the default difficulty setting to be changed. Clicking the button cycles through to the next difficulty. There are four options available; in order, Peaceful, Easy, Normal, and Hard. The default difficulty setting is Normal.
Allow Commands (OFF)
Controls whether or not certain commands and debug functions are able to be used. Clicking the button toggles the option on and off.
World
The "World" tab.
World Type
Controls the world type. Clicking the button cycles through the available world types, which are Default, Superflat, Large Biomes, AMPLIFIED, Single Biome, and, when ⌥ Alt is held down, Debug Mode. Selecting Superflat or Single Biome enables the "Customize" button. With a world type of Superflat, the Customize button options the "Superflat Customization" menu is shown; with Single Biome, the button brings you to a list of selectable biomes.
Seed
Allows the world seed to be changed. Any string of characters can be placed here.
Generate Structures (ON)
Controls whether or not structures should generate in the world.
Bonus Chest (OFF)
Controls whether a bonus chest full of beginner loot should generate near the player when they first spawn in to the world.
More
The "More" tab.
Data Packs
Opens a menu that controls which data packs the world should start off with. Data packs cannot be added or removed from the world after it is created.
Experiments
Allows experimental features to be enabled or disabled. Also appears in the "Game" tab in development versions.
Game Rules
Opens a menu that controls which game rules should be enabled by default. Can be set even when commands are disabled.
Bedrock Edition

The Create new world screen in Bedrock Edition
The Create new world screen can be opened by pressing "Create new world" in the "Worlds" tab of the Play screen, and selecting a world template or the second "Create new world" button. The Create new world screen is also opened from the purchase screen of world templates in the Marketplace.
The menu shows a thumbnail with some buttons and a tab list on the left, and the world options for each selected tab on the right. The world thumbnail is either a default image, the image for the selected flat world preset or seed template, or the thumbnail of the world template.

Option

Description

Returns to the previously opened menu screen, usually the "Create from..." screen in the Play screen. Changes made to the world options will not be saved when leaving.

Saves the selected world options and opens the loading world screen to create and play the world.

Opens a menu with the options to create the world on an owned Realm, or add a new Realms subscription. Selecting a Realms server will show a selection screen with three available world slots where the world can be stored. The current world will be replaced with the new world.Not available in the Editor but the interface has a Realms export tool.

When the world is being created from a Marketplace template, some options may be locked by the creator. The options can be unlocked by selecting the message at the top, but this may result in different gameplay than the creator intended for the template.
Some options and custom add-ons may permanently disable achievements for the world, which are shown with a message below the thumbnail. Enabling Hardcore mode, add-ons, or experiments shows a warning message as well.

 General

World name / Project name Regular: My WorldEditor: My Project
The name of the world, shown in all world lists, in the in-game player list, and for multiplayer connections. Allows a string from 1–30 characters.

Game mode Survival
Changes the default game mode, which is the game mode all players get when joining the world. Adventure mode is only available for world templates with predefined settings. Selecting Creative mode disables achievements.
Survival
Explore a mysterious world where you build, collect, craft, and fight monsters.

Creative
Create, build, and explore without limits. You can fly, have endless materials, and can't be hurt by monsters.

Adventure
The template creator has defined how you can interact with the game

Difficulty Normal
Changes the game's difficulty setting, which has a significant effect on Survival gameplay.
Peaceful
No hostile mobs and only some neutral mobs spawn. Hunger bar doesn't deplete and health replenishes over time.

Easy
Hostile mobs spawn but deal less damage. Hunger bar depletes and drains health down to 5 hearts.

Normal
Hostile mobs spawn and deal standard damage. Hunger bar depletes and drains health down to half a heart.

Hard
Hostile mobs spawn and deal more damage. Hunger bar depletes and can drain all health.

Hardcore
You can't respawn if you die. Good luck! You'll need it.

Enables Hardcore, permanently locking the default game mode to Survival and the difficulty to Hard, while also disabling cheats and some other options. Not available in the Editor, but can be enabled upon exporting.

 Advanced

World type Infinite world
Changes the world type to generate. Only available in the Editor, regular worlds have the "Flat world" toggle below.
Infinite world
Standard Minecraft world creation based on a world seed

Flat world
A completely flat world stretching into the distance

Void world
A world of absolute emptiness, ready to be filled.

World seed
Guides the algorithm that magically creates your world

This is the world seed, a random number by default. This can be changed to any string of characters; leaving empty selects a random seed. On the right, there is a button which opens the seed templates menu.
Seed templates
Main article: Seed Templates
The seed templates menu
Instead of entering a random seed, the player can choose to pick a predefined seed from 26 available templates. Each template has a name and a thumbnail and the corresponding seed has some interesting terrain or structures near the world spawn.

Flat world
A flat world to build up or mine down into

Replaces the Overworld with a flat world. Enabling this disables achievements. Not available in the Editor as "World type" replaces this option.

Flat world preset Classic Flat
The layers of blocks that make up your flat world

Only available when "Flat world" is enabled, allows to select a flat world preset from 8 different options. Below the selected flat world preset, a list of blocks that make up the flat world is shown with the amount of layers for each block.

Starting map
Spawn with a blank map to explore your world

When a player spawns in the world for the first time, an empty locator map appears in their hotbar. Not available in Hardcore, and cannot be changed after world creation.

Bonus chest
Spawn close to a chest with items to get you started

A bonus chest full of beginner generates near the world spawn when the world is first created. Not available in Hardcore, and cannot be changed after world creation.

Show coordinates
Display your current position

Shows the player's current coordinates on the HUD without decimals, applied for all players in the world.

Show days played
Display the number of in-game days played

Shows the number of in-game days played on the HUD, applied for all players in the world.

Recipe unlocking
Collect materials to unlock recipes in your recipe book

When enabled, crafting recipes need to be unlocked through gameplay before they appear in the recipe book. Locked recipes still function when items are put in the crafting grid without using the recipe book.

Fire spreads
Fire can spread between entities

Controls whether fire can spread from block to block, between entities, and distinguish naturally.

TNT explodes
Red box goes boom

Controls whether TNT and minecarts with TNT can explode.

Mob loot
Mobs drop items when killed

Controls whether mobs can drop items when killed.

Natural regeneration
Gain or lose health based on your hunger

Controls whether hunger can affect the player's health; a high hunger bar regenerating health or an empty hunger bar lowering the health.

Tile drops
Blocks drop when they're broken

Controls whether blocks can drop items when they are broken.

Skip night by sleeping
Sleeping in a bed will skip to morning

Controls whether sleeping in a bed at night or during thunderstorms skips to morning and clear weather.

Required Sleeping Players All (100%)
How many players must be in bed to skip the night?

Changes how many players are required to sleep before the night will be skipped, if "Skip night by sleeping" is enabled. Can be set between 0%, where the night will always be skipped if anyone sleeps in a bed, and 100% where all players need to be in bed before the night is skipped.

Immediate respawn
Skip "You died!" menu and immediately respawn

Controls whether to skip the death screen and immediately respawn after the player has died. In Hardcore mode, the "Game over!" screen will be skipped and the player will instantly enter Spectator mode upon death.

Respawn blocks explode
Respawn anchors and beds can explode

Controls whether beds and respawn anchors explode when used in the wrong dimension.

Respawn radius 10
Respawn within this block radius when you die and no custom spawnpoint is set (max 128)

An integer input controlling the spread distance around the world spawn where players randomly spawn if they don't have a custom respawn point. Can be set between 0 and 128.

Simulation distance 4 chunks
The game loads and applies changes within a range of 64x64 blocks from the player

Allows the simulation distance to be changed, which determines the range of mob spawning/despawning, game ticks, and chunk updates. Can be set to 4, 6, 8, 10, or 12 chunks. Some devices may limit the simulation distance option to 8 or 10 chunks.

 Multiplayer

Multiplayer game
Other players can join your world

Controls whether multiplayer is enabled in this world, which allows players to join depending on the following settings. If enabled, the game is still considered singleplayer until other players join.

Settings
The following settings are grayed out unless multiplayer is enabled.

Player access / PlayStation™ Network friends Friends
Determines who can join this world trough Minecraft's social network. Players can always join when they received an invite from the pause menu, and if enabled, the world shows as multiplayer world in the world list of friends, or the game can be joined from the profile.
Invite players
Anyone you send a direct invite can join

Friends
Anyone you've added as a Minecraft friend can join

Friends of friends
Friends of your Minecraft friends can join

Default player permissions Member
The assigned player permissions to new players joining the game. These can always be customized per player from the pause menu.
Visitor
Visitors can only observe your world, not interact with it

Member
Members can build and mine, attack players and mobs, and interact with items and entities

Operator
Operators can teleport and use commands, in addition to anything Members can do

Visible to LAN players
Players on your local network can join your world

Controls whether the world is visible to any player on the same LAN network as a multiplayer game, regardless of the player access setting.

Friendly fire
Players can damage each other

Controls whether players can directly damage each other, using melee attacks or projectiles.

Player waypoints Everyone
Select which players are shown as waypoints on the locator bar

Controls whether the locator bar is visible if multiple players are in the world.
Off
No player waypoints are added to the locator bar

Everyone
Adds all other players as waypoints to the locator bar

 Cheats

Cheats
Customize the game with cheat settings

Controls whether most commands are available for operators, unlocks the following cheat settings. Enabling this disables achievements, not available on Hardcore.

Cheat settings
The following settings are grayed out unless cheats are enabled.

Daylight cycle Normal
Controls functionality of the daylight cycle.
Normal
In-game time passes normally, from day to night

Always day
In-game time is locked to noon

Keep inventory
Keep all items in the inventory when you die

Controls whether players keep their inventory contents after dying.

Mob spawning
Mobs spawn naturally

Controls whether mobs can spawn naturally.

Mob griefing
Mobs can move and destroy blocks in your world

Controls whether certain mobs can move and destroy blocks, such as endermen and creepers.

Entities drop loot
Non-mob entities, like paintings, drop items when destroyed

Controls whether non-mob entities can drop items when destroyed.

Weather cycle
The possibility to get rain, snow and thunderstorms

Controls whether the weather can change between rain, snow, and thunderstorms over time, or is locked to the current weather.

Command blocks
Use commands to program these blocks

Controls whether command blocks can execute commands and can be customized by operators.

Minecraft Education features
Enables educational items like the chemistry kit

Controls whether to enable certain features from Minecraft Education.

Random tick speed 1
Affects the behavior of certain blocks, like the speed of vegetation growth and decay (max 4096)

An integer input that controls the rate at which random events occur in the world caused by random ticks. Can be set between 0 and 4096, contains a quick reset button next to the box.

 Resource packs

Shared packs
Players are asked to download all local packs in order to join the game.

Controls whether resource packs on the world are optional or forced. When turned off, players can refuse to download and enable local resource packs, and select their own packs in the Global Resources settings. When turned on, players will download all enabled resource packs and global resource packs are disabled.

Active

Local
Lists all active local resource packs. When multiple resource packs are enabled that can conflict with each other, the highest resource pack in the list will overwrite donflicting features from other packs. Each pack can be dragged to any location in the list. A pack can be removed with the "Remove" button next to each pack, and the description can be shown by selecting the pack. For Marketplace packs, there is a button to open the purchase page in the Marketplace. For all packs, there is a button to open a menu with the technical details of the pack, such as the UUID, storage location, and error logs. Certain packs have a settings menu which allows to customize features from the pack and view custom information.

Global
Lists all active global resource packs. The same details and links can be opened for global packs as for local packs, but they can only be enabled or disabled in the "Global Resources" tab in the main settings menu.

Available

Owned
A dropdown widget that lists available resource packs obtained from the Marketplace, imported custom packs, or stored manually in  development_resource_packs or  resource_packs. Each pack can be activated by pressing the button on the right of the pack, and more information can be shown by selecting the pack. Marketplace packs also show a button to open the purchase screen in the Marketplace. Some packs may require downloading before they can be activated. Enabling a resource pack that is part of an add-on also enables the connected behavior pack if available.
Marketplace packs are not available in the Editor.

Marketplace Pass
A dropdown widget that lists available resource packs from Marketplace Pass. They can be opened the same way as packs in the "Owned" list. If the player is not subscribed to the Marketplace Pass, a button that opens the Marketplace Pass purchase screen shows instead.
Not available in the Editor.

 Get more packs
Hundreds of packs available in the Marketplace

Redirects to a Marketplace page featuring new resource packs, not available in the Editor.

 Behavior packs

Active
A submenu that lists active behavior packs, sets of customized features that affect gameplay. Behavior packs can be opened similarly to resource packs, but are always connected to the world data. Removing behavior packs might cause unexpected behavior.

Available
A submenu that lists available behavior packs, which can be imported custom packs, or stored manually in  development_behavior_packs or  behavior_packs, but not Marketplace add-ons as these are activated in the "Resource packs" tab above. Enabling a behavior pack that is part of an add-on also enables the connected resource pack if available.

 Experiments

Experiments are potential new features. Be careful as things might break.

This tab allows the player to enable several experimental features. After saving the world with experiments enabled, the experiments can't be toggled off again. See Experiments § Bedrock Edition for details about each experiment.
Gameplay
Change the way your world works

Villager Trade Rebalancing
Contains updated trades for villagers for the purpose of rebalancing

Drop 3 of 2026​[until: BE 26.50]
Explore a new surface biome and find the abandoned camps spread throughout the world

Add-on creators
For creators of game packs and other add-ons

Upcoming Creator Features
Includes actor properties and adjustable fog parameters

Beta APIs
Use "-beta" versions of API modules in add-on packs

Experimental Creator Camera Features
Enables the use of the latest custom camera features

Render Dragon Features for Creators
Enable the deferred rendering pipeline. Requires a PBR-enabled resource pack and compatible hardware.

Experimental Voxel Shape Features
Enables the use of voxel shapes for some vanilla and custom blocks.

History
Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.0.13a
Added "Generate new level" button to pause menu.0.0.14a
 Changed "Generate new level" to "Generate new level..." button.

Added "Generate new level" screen.

Added level sizes to the level generation screen: Small, Normal, or Huge.0.0.23a
Menu buttons now have a stone like texture.Java Edition Indev0.3120100106-2158
Added level types to the level generation screen: Island, Floating, Flat, or Original.

Added level shapes to the level generation screen: Square, Long, or Deep.20100107-1851
Added level themes to the level generation screen: Normal or Hell.20100109-1939
Replaced Original level type with Inland.20100131-2156
Added "Generate new level..." button to main menu.20100214
Added Paradise and Woods level themes.Java Edition InfdevMinecraft Infdev20100227-1414
Level types, sizes, shapes, and themes no longer function due to world generation changes.20100327
Replaced "Generate new level" screen with "Select World" menu.

Removed "Generate new level..." button from main menu and pause menu.Java Edition Beta1.3
Added "Create New World" screen.

Added world name to the world creation screen.

Added the seed option to the world creation screen.

Added "Create New World" button to "Select World" menu.1.8Pre-release
Added Creative mode.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
Added Hardcore mode.1.112w01a
Re-added world types to the world creation screen.

Added the Superflat world type.1.3.112w16a
Added the Bonus Chest option to the world creation menu.

Added the Allow Cheats option to the world creation menu.12w17a
The Bonus Chest and Enable Cheats options are now disabled when Hardcore mode is selected.12w19a
Added the Large Biomes world type.1.4.212w37a
Added the Superflat customization button.1.7.213w36a
Added the AMPLIFIED world type.1.814w17a
Added the Customized world type.14w26a
Added the Debug Mode world type.14w27a
World creation options are now disabled when "Debug Mode" is selected as the world type.1.1318w06a
The Customized world type has been removed.18w16a
Added the Buffet world type.1.1419w12a
Worlds with names already being used now prepend a number in parentheses to the folder name instead of adding hyphens.1.1620w17a
Added the Game Rules button.

Added the Difficulty button.20w21a
Added the Import Settings button.

Split the Buffet world type option into Single Biome, Caves, and Floating Islands.Pre-release 1
Added the Data Packs button.1.1720w45a
Changed the order of the Game Mode button from Survival→Hardcore→Creative to Survival→Creative→Hardcore.21w03a
Reverted the game mode order change.1.18Experimental Snapshot 1
Removed the Amplified and Large Biomes world types.Pre-release 1
Removed the “Caves” and “Floating Islands” world types.

Re-added the Amplified and Large Biomes world types.1.19.423w05a
Overhauled the world creation screen. It is now separated into three tabs: Game, World, and More.23w06a
Added a new screen for toggling experimental features.Pre-release 1
The three tabs now have a unique look instead of being traditional buttons.Pre-release 2
The save location for the new world now shows up in a tooltip when placing the cursor over the world name.1.20.5
Added linear blur to background.1.20.5
Added default panorama.1.20.524w04a
Renamed "Allow Cheats" to "Allow Commands".
Bedrock Edition



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
Added the "Create new" screen. It only had settings to change the world name and the seed at the time.

World name by default is "New World".v0.1.1
 Added the "Create new" menu version for Android.

Changed world name by default to "Unnamed world".v0.1.2
Added the "Create new" menu version for iOS.v0.2.0
 Added game modes to the world creation screen. Changed design.

Added Survival mode.v0.7.0
 Renamed menu to "Create a Local Game". Changed design.

World Name option is now blank but world saved by default with name "Level".v0.7.3
 World Name option is now filled, once again. Changed world name by default to "My World".v0.9.0build 1
 Renamed menu to "Create a World".

 Added Advanced options with Old, Infinite, and Flat world types.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Added the Bonus Chest option, which can be toggled in the Create New World screen.1.19.20beta 1.18.20.21
 Create new world screen has been updated to match Ore UI.1.21.40Preview 1.21.0.20
Added Hardcore mode.1.21.80Preview 1.21.80.22
 Added flat world presets.26.30Preview 26.30.29
Replaced the "Locator bar" toggle with a "Player waypoints" setting.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education1.21.91Preview 1.21.90.1
 Create new world screen has been updated to match Ore UI.
Legacy Console Edition



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added "Superflat" world type.
Added the bonus chest option to the options menu.TU25CU141.171.171.17
Added ability to customize a Superflat world. CU361.381.381.38
Added the "Amplified World" option.
Issues
Issues relating to "Create New World" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
The world seed option in Bedrock Edition always shows the seed 3257840388504953787 when left empty, but the actually picked seed is random.
Gallery
Java Edition



			The "Game" tab



			The "World" tab



			The "More" tab



			The "Experiments" screen


Bedrock Edition



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The flat world presets menu in the "Advanced" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab



			The "Experiments" tab


Bedrock Editor



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab



			The "Experiments" tab


Minecraft Education



			The "General" tab



			The "Advanced" tab



			The "Classroom" tab



			The "Cloud Storage" tab



			The "Multiplayer" tab



			The "Coding & Scripting" tab



			The "Cheats" tab



			The "Resource packs" tab



			The "Behavior packs" tab


Historical screenshots
Java Edition



			Generate New Level in Indev and early Infdev



			Create New World in Beta 1.6



			Create New World in 1.12.2



			More World Options in 1.12.2



			Create New World in 1.17.1



			More World Options in 1.17.1



			The "Game" tab in 1.19.4



			The "World" tab in 1.19.4



			The "More" tab in 1.19.4


Bedrock Edition



			Create World screen from 1.2 development



			Create World screen from 1.3 development



			Create World screen from 1.2.0 to 1.19.20



			Another version



			Create World screen from 1.19.20 to 1.21.0.20 for Preview and 1.21.40 for full release



			Create world screen from 1.21.0.20 for Preview and 1.21.40 for full release onwards


Minecraft Education



			Create new world screen from ? to 1.21.90.1 for Preview and 1.21.91 for full release onwards


Notes

 Only available in Minecraft Preview

See also
Ore UI, the Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education UI refresh
References

 MCPE-151913 – Switching to Creative Mode doesn't activate cheats in the new UI – resolved as "Unresolved".

Navigation