Pixel art, structures, and other creations made in Creative mode.
Creative mode is one of the main game modes in Minecraft. Creative mode strips away the survival aspects of Minecraft and allows players to easily create and destroy structures and mechanisms with the inclusion of an infinite use of blocks and flying. In Bedrock Edition, it disables the player's ability to earn achievements. It also has unique background music.

Contents

1 Gameplay

1.1 Destroying

1.1.1 Interaction range

1.2 Flying
1.3 Invincibility
1.4 Mobs
1.5 Items
1.6 Pick block
1.7 Switching to Creative mode
1.8 Achievements

2 Creative inventory

2.1 Java Edition
2.2 Bedrock Edition
2.3 Platform specific exclusive features

3 Representation in level.dat
4 History

4.1 Development
4.2 Java Edition
4.3 Bedrock Edition
4.4 Legacy Console Edition
4.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

5 Issues
6 Gallery
7 Notes
8 References
9 Navigation

Gameplay
A player flying in Creative mode.
Destroying
Creative mode allows players to destroy all blocks instantly (including normally indestructible blocks such as bedrock, end portal frames, etc.), provided they are not holding a sword, trident, mace, debug stick‌[JE  only], or spear.
When continuously holding destroy to break blocks in Creative mode, there is a 6 game tick (0.3 second) cooldown between each block broken. This is distinct from instant mining in Survival mode, where one block can be broken every game tick (0.05 second). This cooldown can be bypassed by rapidly clicking the destroy button, allowing blocks to be broken as quickly as the player clicks.
Blocks directly broken by the player do not drop any resource; the only exceptions are shulker boxes and beehives if they have non-default NBT data which drop themselves when broken, and containers (excluding shulker boxes) will drop their contents when broken. Blocks broken indirectly (for example, a torch attached to the block that is being broken, or blocks destroyed by an explosion) drop item resources as in other game modes. Infested blocks do not spawn silverfish when destroyed directly by the player.

Interaction range
Main article: Interaction range
Players in Creative have a longer interaction range (reach) for placing, destroying, and attacking than in Survival.

Edition

Reach in Creative mode

Reach in other game modes

Java Edition

5.2 blocks

4.5 blocks

Bedrock (keyboard or controller)

5 blocks

5 blocks

Bedrock (touch controls)

12 blocks

6 blocks

Flying
Main article: Flying
Creative mode gives players the ability to fly. To activate flying, double tap the jump key. Use the jump key to go up and the sneak key to go down, and the movement controls to move. The player can disable flying in mid-air by double-tapping jump again or sneak (on touch devices only), causing them to drop to the ground. Touching the ground when flying disables flying in Java Edition, but not in Bedrock Edition. Getting into a minecart or bed does not disable flying. However, getting into a boat or riding a mob such as pig, llama, horse, donkey, mule, skeleton horse, strider, trader llama, or camel disables flying.

Invincibility
In Creative mode, players have no visible health or hunger bar to hamper their building since they are invincible (though it is still possible to eat).
Players in Creative mode are unable to receive damage from the vast majority of sources. In Java Edition, going too far into the void still kills the player; however, in Bedrock Edition, the player is also immune to this (they are stopped by an invisible barrier that exists in all three dimensions). The player can fly around in the void provided they do not descend more than 64 blocks below the bottom of the dimension. In Java Edition, the void, the /kill and /damage commands, external editors, and instant health potions with an amplifier of 29 are the only way to die in Creative mode. Creative players in Bedrock Edition are completely invulnerable.

Mobs
Mobs still spawn as they do in other game modes, unless the difficulty is Peaceful or when the game rule doMobSpawning is set to false, but all are passive toward the players. Zombies summoned by others calling for backup attempt to attack the player, but they still cause no harm, and they stop attacking after several seconds. The player can still ignite creepers with a flint and steel or fire charge. Mobs killed by the player in Creative still drop items, but most other entities do not.

Items
Some items behave differently in Creative mode. Items do not disappear or lose durability when used. For example, putting an item in an item frame, on an armor stand, or in a decorated pot does not cause it to disappear from the player's hand. Instead, the item is duplicated. It is the same for putting on armor by right-clicking it from the player's hotbar.‌[Java Edition  only] Also, empty buckets simply make liquids disappear, similarly to the other liquid filled buckets, which don't lose water and can be placed infinitely.
Item entities can be picked up by the player, but if the hotbar is already full, the items go into the Survival inventory. If the survival inventory is full as well, the items are deleted even though they appear to be picked up.

Pick block
The player can obtain items using pick block. Unlike Survival, the block selected appears in the player's hotbar even if the block is not already in the hotbar or in the Survival inventory. If it is in the inventory, then the block moves out of its former slot and replaces the block/item in the active hotbar slot, with the size of the stack preserved. If the hotbar is full then the selected block replaces the block/item in the active slot.
Most blocks give the player a copy of themselves when using pick block. Using it on an item frame gives the player the item held inside, or the item frame itself if no item is held. Using it on a mob gives the player a spawn egg of that mob. Using it on a mob head gives the mob type that it is; using it on custom heads gives only the mob type that was used in the command, but without the custom skin.
If the player holds ⎈ Control and presses pick block, in addition to obtaining the item, it also preserves the block's NBT tags, allowing the player to place an identical copy of the block; this allows the player to duplicate items inside of chests, dispensers, and so on, and also duplicates the text on signs.

Switching to Creative mode
Once a world is created, if cheats are enabled, the game mode can be manually changed to Creative (or other game modes) with the /gamemode command, specifically by typing /gamemode creative. In Java Edition, the game mode switcher (F3 + F4) can also be used. In multiplayer, players can be individually changed between game modes with the /gamemode command available to operators. This means that individual players can play Creative mode (at the operator's discretion) on a Survival map, or vice-versa. The default game mode for new players can also be changed with the /defaultgamemode command.

Achievements



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

In Bedrock Edition, opening a new Creative world or opening an existing world in Creative permanently disables achievements or trophies for that particular game, but has no other effects on gameplay. In other words, achievements/trophies work only in games that have never been in Creative.

Creative inventory
Main article: Creative inventory
The Creative mode inventory showing the Search tab for the Java Edition.
The Creative mode inventory showing the All tab in Bedrock Edition (Classic option).
The Creative mode inventory showing the All tab in Bedrock Edition (Pocket option).
In Creative, the normal inventory screen is replaced by the item selection screen, which contains almost all blocks and items (with some exceptions) in a tabbed interface. Some items and blocks are exclusively available only in Creative mode, such as spawn eggs. Likewise, some blocks can be placed or used only in Creative with operator permission, such as command blocks and structure blocks. In Java Edition, items currently in the hotbar can be saved to later be loaded in the "Saved Hotbars" menu.

Java Edition
In Java Edition, there are 13 (14 if Operator Utilities tab is enabled in settings) tabs that are ordered from top-left to bottom-right as:

Building Blocks
Colored Blocks
Natural Blocks
Functional Blocks
Redstone Blocks
Saved Hotbars
Search Items
Tools & Utilities
Combat
Food & Drinks
Ingredients
Spawn Eggs
Operator Utilities (Needs to be enabled in settings)
Survival Inventory
In Java Edition, there is a "destroy item" button, where items can be dragged to and deleted. ⇧ Shift + clicking on the button clears the entire inventory, including the hotbar, off-hand slot, and armor slots.

Bedrock Edition
In Bedrock Edition, there are 5 tabs:

Construction
Equipment
Items
Nature
All
When using the "Classic" UI profile, the buttons in the top right corner can toggle the inventory screen to show:

only the Creative inventory
both the Creative and the Survival inventory
only the Survival inventory
When using the "Pocket" UI profile, it is not possible to display both the Creative and the Survival inventory at the same time; the Creative inventory, however, can be shrunk to also display the 2×2 crafting grid or the equipment slots using the tabs on the right side of the screen.

Platform specific exclusive features
Some blocks and items are obtainable in Creative on one platform, but not the other. The full list of blocks and items obtainable only in the Java Edition Creative Inventory can be found in Java Edition exclusive features#Creative inventory. Bedrock Edition exclusive Creative Inventory blocks and items can be found in Bedrock Edition exclusive features#Creative inventory.

Representation in level.dat
Main article: level.dat
Creative mode is represented as 1 in GameType in the level.dat file; to manually change the GameType, the file must first be opened with an external NBT editor.
Note: Singleplayer worlds do not use this field to save the game mode the player is currently in.

History



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Add info between Infdev 20100630 and Beta 1.7.3, might require modification of the game since these versions didn't have Creative mode by default.

  This section is about general and miscellaneous changes to Creative such as abilities.   For changes about Creative inventory controls/functions, see Inventory § History.   For changes about the layout/availability of blocks/items inside the Creative inventory, see Creative inventory/History.

Development
May 16, 2009
Notch discussed Creative among the various game modes he envisioned for the game.June 28, 2011
Notch announced Creative mode as one of the gamemodes a player can choose.July 5, 2011
The modification date of the texture used for the Creative inventory prior to 1.3.1 (12w16a) suggests that Creative mode was in development at this point.
Java Edition
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
The first version of "Creative" mode has no flying, and no placing or removing blocks.rd-132211
The player can now place and destroy blocks. Left-clicking places a block, and right-clicking destroys a block.

Blocks cannot be placed past the world boundary.

Falling off the edge or digging through the bottom of the world no longer kills the player.rd-20090515
Added the ability to switch what block is placed with the 1–4 keys. The player can place stone, dirt, cobblestone, and wooden planks.rd-161348
The player can now select and place saplings with 6.Java Edition Classic0.0.9a
Changed the controls — right click now switches between placing and destroying blocks, and left click performs the selected action.0.0.14a
Saplings are now selected with 5 instead of 6.

The player can now select logs, leaves, sand, and gravel with the 6–9 keys.0.0.19a
Added the hotbar, which displays selectable blocks.

The player can now select sponges and glass, replacing cobblestone and sand on the hotbar due to a lack of available space/number keys. 0.0.20a
Added the creative inventory, opened by pressing B. It allows swapping the blocks on the hotbar between most blocks in the game.

Changed the default hotbar blocks: 0.24_SURVIVAL_TEST
Creative mode has been temporarily removed in order to test Survival mode.0.28
Creative has been reimplemented, once again replacing Survival mode. (While Survival Test was still available on the website at this point, it remained on version 0.27 until the release of 0.30.)

Changed the default hotbar blocks: Java Edition Indev0.3120091223-1459
Changed the default hotbar blocks. These would remain in place until the removal of creative default items. 20091231-1856
The Creative inventory and its keybind have been removed until Beta 1.8.

Almost all subsequent versions up to and including Beta 1.7.3 use Survival gameplay by default. Some minor code edits could return the game to an effective Creative state, although this was unsupported and became increasingly unstable overtime.20100106-2158
Blocks are no longer infinite in Creative mode.20100113-2015
A Creative mode variant of this version exists, but it is somewhat broken.Java Edition Infdev20100227-1414
It is now possible to take damage in Creative mode.

Enter no longer saves the spawn point.

R no longer loads the spawn point.Java Edition Beta1.8Pre-release
Creative mode is now legitimately accessible again as one of the two game modes players can be in, alongside Survival.

Added flying in creative mode.

Several actions now work in Creative mode, that didn't work previously if Creative mode was enabled through modding. These include mob spawning, breaking bedrock and taking damage when falling through the void.

Default hotbar blocks now only fill empty slots, and are not given at all in multiplayer.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
Hostile mobs are now neutral to players in Creative mode.1.111w49a
In this version only, pressing B would put the player in a temporary creative mode until the world was closed1.2.112w05a
Enchanting no longer requires experience in Creative mode.1.3.112w16a
Cheats allow switching between Survival and Creative modes in singleplayer without mods or editors. Default hotbar blocks are given when switching from survival to creative mode.12w17a
Tools in Creative mode now have infinite durability.12w18a
As a result of singleplayer being changed to an internal server, players are no longer given default hotbar blocks in creative mode.12w21b
Sorted the creative inventory into tabs.

Added a search tab.

The Survival inventory can now be accessed in creative mode without using blocks with GUIs.12w22a
The player can now wear and remove armor in Creative mode.12w27a
Creative inventory now shows status effects.12w30c
The crafting grid was removed from the Survival inventory tab because of a duplication bug.1.4.212w32a
Added command blocks, which can be used only in Creative mode.1.6.113w18a
Creepers, skeletons, zombies, witches, and wolves are no longer provoked when attacked by a player who is in Creative mode.13w21a
Experience levels no longer appear in Creative. Previously, the experience would be hidden but experience levels would show.13w25b
It is no longer possible to break blocks with a sword in Creative mode.1.7.21.7
Spiders, cave spiders, zombie pigmen, blazes, and endermen are no longer provoked when attacked by a player who is in Creative mode.2013 Music Update
Six ambient music tracks are added that play in Creative mode.1.814w06a
Players in Creative mode can make barriers visible by holding a barrier in their hand.14w07a
Players can create a copy of a block entity in their hotbar, including all NBT data, by holding ⎈ Control and pressing pick block.14w10a
Players in Creative can now damage entities even if they are flagged invulnerable.1.915w31a
Added structure blocks in the Combat Update. They were unobtainable and unusable and could be placed only with commands, such as /setblock.1.1016w20a
Structure blocks are now obtainable using commands in the Frostburn Update and usable in Creative mode.1.1217w06a
Added toolbar saving. This caused the old "Ingredients" tab to be merged with the "Miscellaneous" tab.1.1318w20a
It is no longer possible to break blocks with tridents in Creative mode.1.1519w46a
All foods are now edible in Creative mode, including cake.1.1620w10a
Fire and soul fire now behave more like other blocks and therefore can no longer be put out by swords/tridents in CreativePre-release 1
Using a bucket on water or lava in Creative mode now provides the player with one water or lava bucket in the inventory. This is created in a new inventory slot rather than replacing the used bucket. A limit of one bucket per fluid can be obtained this way - attempting to fill a bucket where a filled one already exists in the inventory removes the fluid as expected but does not provide any new buckets.

Cows and mooshrooms can also now be milked in Creative mode, providing the player with limitless milk buckets.Pre-release 4
Milking cows now provides Creative players with only one bucket.26.1snap8
Using Ctrl + Pick input as an operator on players and mannequins will now show the same results as executing the /fetchprofile.

Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.1.0
Added Creative mode.v0.2.0
Added the flying ability to Creative mode.
Added Survival mode, making Creative optional.v0.9.0build 2
Mobs no longer become hostile towards Creative mode players unless provoked.v0.10.0build 1
Creative now has the day/night cycle. Previously the time would be locked at noon.v0.11.0build 1
Creative mode worlds can now be converted to Survival (or vice-versa) without third-party software.
Added an option to lock the time at daylight for Creative mode worlds.build 10
Increased interaction range for players in Creative.build 11
Players in Creative are no longer killed by the void.build 12
Players in Creative mode no longer catch fire.v0.12.1build 1
Mobs no longer become hostile toward Creative mode players, even when provoked.

External inventories can now be interacted with in Creative.

Prior to this version, players could not activate nether reactors in Creative mode; this was made obsolete with the addition of the Nether.build 11
External inventories can no longer be interacted with in Creative due to a lack of a proper inventory.

It is no longer possible to break blocks with a sword in Creative mode.v0.14.0build 1
Added Survival inventory tabs to the Creative inventory.

External inventories can now be interacted with in Creative.v0.15.0build 1
Added achievements, which cannot be earned in Creative mode. Switching to Creative gives a "warning" message.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
Players now start Creative mode worlds with an empty hotbar.1.7.0beta 1.7.0.2
Players can now eat in Creative mode.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added Creative mode.
Added a simple tutorial for creative mode.
Added flying and sprint-flying to creative mode.
Disabled achievements and leaderboard updates if the player is in Creative mode or if the world has been previously saved in Creative mode.TU6
Added a quick command to clear the hotbar in Creative mode. (////// button)
Tools in Creative mode now have infinite durability.TU19CU71.121.121.12
It is no longer possible to break blocks with a sword in Creative mode.TU241.071.001.00
Six ambient music tracks are added that play in Creative mode.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Players in Creative mode can make barriers visible by holding a barrier in their hand.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Golden apples, enchanted golden apples and the new chorus fruit are now edible in creative mode.TU56CU481.551.551.55Patch 261.0.6
Cows and mooshrooms can also now be milked in Creative mode.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added Creative mode.



			The first image of flying in Creative mode.



			The Creative mode item selection screen prior to Java Edition 12w21b.


Issues
Issues relating to "Creative" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Add images of Creative mode of a version between Indev 0.31 20091231 to Beta 1.7.3 with Creative mode enabled - will likely require modification of the game since these versions didn't have Creative mode by default, although it was still there



			Creative Mode icon from Bedrock Edition.



			Creative mode in Java Edition Beta 1.8 Pre-release.



			Creative mode in Java Edition Beta 1.8.1.



			Creative mode in Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100113-2015.



			Several Creative mode builds.



			A house built on a Creative plot server.



			A Creative mode interface.






























Notes

 If a healing potion has an amplifier of 29, then it should heal the player for 2,147,483,648 hearts of health, which is 1 heart over the 32-bit integer limit, causing an integer overflow, and wraps around to the lowest possible integer, that being -2,147,483,648, which is negative and ends up subtracting health rather than adding it.

 In Bedrock Edition, it also behaves like in Java, but only with custom armor from add-ons and not vanilla armor.

References

 MC-126300 – Unlike sword, trident can accidentally break blocks in creative mode – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-9856 – you cannot pick up buckets of water/lava in creative mode – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-36322 – Unable to milk cows in creative – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-188352 – Creative mode cow milking / mushroom stewing inconsistent with picking up placed fluids – resolved as "Fixed".

Navigation