This page only covers Crumbl's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Crumbl, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.

Crumbl, LLC

Founder(s)

Jason McGowanSawyer Hemsley

Founded

2017

Links

Website

{
    "title": "Crumbl, LLC",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Jason McGowan<br>Sawyer Hemsley",
            "label": "Founder(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "2017",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://crumblcookies.com Website]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Crumbl logo.png"
    ]
}

A Minecraft-themed dessert set
Crumbl is an American dessert franchise that will release Minecraft-themed cookies, cakes, and spoons from August 31, 2026 through September 5, 2026 at select locations.

Contents

1 Products

1.1 Desserts
1.2 Mystery Spoons

2 History
3 Gallery
4 Notes
5 References
6 Navigation

Products
Desserts

Name
Image
Based on
Press release description

Minecraft Grass Block Cake

Grass Block
A square cinnamon vanilla cake coated in chocolate crumb streusel and a cinnamon brown sugar topping, layered with brown cream cheese frosting, topped with grass-textured frosting and finished with a non-edible Minecraft topper.

Minecraft Creeper Key Lime Sandwich

Creeper
A square lime cookie sandwiching a layer of lime frosting, coated in green sprinkles and finished with a Minecraft creeper topper.

Minecraft Lemon Poppyseed Cookie

Bee
A square lemon poppyseed cookie topped with lemon curd and lemon buttercream, then finished with a non-edible Minecraft bee topper.

Minecraft Cookies & Cream Sandwich

Enderman
A square chocolate cookies & cream cookie sandwiching a purple marshmallow mousse, loaded with brownie pieces and more cookies & cream pieces, and finished with a non-edible Minecraft enderman topper.

Minecraft Cherry Blossom Cookie

PigCherry Grove
A square pink cookie mixed with maraschino cherries, topped with cherry cream cheese frosting mixed with maraschino cherry purée, sprinkled with cookie crumbs and finished with a non-edible Minecraft pig topper.

Minecraft Cookie Butter Cookie

Warm Chicken
A square marbled spiced cookie butter cookie topped with melted cookie butter, cinnamon vanilla and cookie butter frostings, finished with cookie butter crumbs and a non-edible Minecraft chicken topper.

Mystery Spoons
The four Mystery Spoon designs



Mystery Spoons are region-locked. 
This item is only available in certain regions.

A Mystery Spoon will be included in 6-pack orders, and two will be included in 12-pack orders while supplies last when an order includes 5 or more Minecraft flavors. The spoon included can be based off of a wooden shovel, diamond sword, golden axe, or iron pickaxe design, and are available in the United States with an in-store purchase only.

History
On August 27, 2026, People published an exclusive announcing a collaboration between Mojang Studios and Crumbl, with specifics of the following weeks' Minecraft-themed menu options. A press release also became publicly available that day. Crumbl proceeded to tease the promotion on its Instagram, posting a story and post regarding Minecraft cookie crafting recipes, and a pixelated variation of a lineup of cookies ran by People. The story was later posted on a Minecraft Instagram story.
On August 30, 2026, Crumbl released a reel and stories regarding the full menu lineup, and changed their profile picture to a variation of their usual logo with a creeper-themed background. A giveaway was also announced in the same reel, with four people who comment which dessert they're "most excited to try" able to recieve a 4-pack of desserts. The winners were set to be direct messaged by the @crumbl Instagram account less than 24 hours later. Crumbl also revamped their homepage to be Minecraft-themed, with the dessert items featured.

Gallery



			An Instagram story recreating the cookie's in-game recipe with flour and chocolate posted ahead of the collaboration



			Said crafting recipe posted with the caption, "Been a little busy... crafting up next week’s menu 🥱🔨"



			Second image in the post, with the upcoming desserts pixelated



			An unpixelated variation



			Packaging of a Mystery Spoon



			Crumbl ✗ Minecraft logo on a creeper background



			Crumbl ✗ Minecraft logo



			Crumbl Twitter banner


Notes

 Only UTC-7 time is known besides reel and story, which the UTC time is August 31, 2026

References

 "Crumbl and Minecraft Join Forces for Limited-Time Dessert Collaboration"     by Mojang Studios  – Business Wire, August 27, 2027.

 "Crumbl Cookies"   (Archive)  – crumbl.

 "Crumbl x Minecraft is here!" – @crumbl on Instagram, August 31, 2026

 "Crumbl Enters the World of Minecraft with a Limited-Time Dessert Lineup (Exclusive)"     by Moná Thomas  – People, August 27, 2026.

 "Crumbl (@crumbl)"     – Instagram, August 29, 2026.

 "Been a little busy... crafting up next week’s menu 🥱🔨 #Crumbl" – @crumbl on Instagram, August 29, 2026

 "minecraft"     – InstaStoriesViewer, August 30, 2026.

 "crumbl"   (Archive)  – InstaStoriesViewer, August 31, 2026.

Navigation