This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 

CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm

Map maker(s)

Cleverlike Studios

Price

Free

Release date

BE: March 29, 2022

Tags

Free
Middle School
Elementary

Genre(s)

Educational
Digital Citizenship

Players

Single player (1)

Website page

CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Cleverlike Studios article, displayed as Cleverlike Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "BE: March 29, 2022",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Free\n* Middle School\n* Elementary",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Educational\n*Digital Citizenship",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player (1)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=6ccf5542-4043-453e-accd-a27252d006ea CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "CyberSafeHomeSweetHmm.jpg"
    ]
}

Key art
CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm is a Minecraft Education map developed by Cleverlike Studios, designed to teach responsibility in online spaces. It can also be played through the Marketplace.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Zombie
1.2 Friend Manager
1.3 Maze Game
1.4 MineMart
1.5 Jungle Market

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Internal

3 Video
4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 NPC renders

6.1.1 Market Search
6.1.2 Unused

6.2 Renders
6.3 Textures
6.4 Official artwork
6.5 Promotional images

7 References
8 Navigation

Summary
Zombie
The map opens inside a house, with the player facing an NPC, "your trusted adult." Upon moving, a title card will appear, and the player will be free to explore the building. Immediately visible is a purple carpet, candles, a flower pot, and iron door. Behind the player's range is a couch and TV, represented by stairs and black stained glass panes. Next to them is a kitchen, with a crafting table, furnace, polished diorite stairs, cauldron, brewing stand, cartography table, and creeper head. Interacting with the Trusted Adult will introduce them, and cite the moral of the map.
Suddenly, a knock is heard at the door, noted by another text on the screen. Approaching the door reveals it to be a zombie, which your Trusted Adult insists we shouldn't open the door for. The player is given a choice between opening the door and not opening the door, the latter being the correct answer to the solution, visualized by an iron golem appearing to deal with the lurking zombie.

Friend Manager
After the zombie is killed in real time, your Trusted Adult notices a notification on a computer, located behind the TV in a bedroom area, with two beds, allium, and end rod lamp. Interacting with the computer will reveal it's an invitation to play on a Minecraft server.
Reading the message will establish the message is from "MineGamer1212," actually a friend named Hayden from school. They want to play "this cool new game with you," which the player needs permission to join in on. Your Trusted Adult agrees, but stresses to pay attention to usernames. Continuing from there will teleport the player into a minecart, descending down a surrealist tunnel into an abstract representation of Minecraft, with lime concrete walls, regal quartz ceiling decorations, and a stack of chests and enchanting table in the corner. At the end of the room is the "Friend Manager" NPC, a physical manifestation of a friend list.
The Friend Manager informs the player that they have four friend requests: MineCrafter12, MineGamer21, MineGamer1212, and KidGamer1212. The player is tasked with identifying which is Hayden, proceeding into a route made of blocks of diamond, iron bars, and mycelium if they guess the wrong answer, meeting a character referred to as "$#%&!". The player instead proceeds into a netherrack and gray glazed terracotta area if they get it correct before riding into a large build of an Xbox controller. The ride ends with the player emerging in a windswept hills overgrown with tall grass, where they ask the player to play a "new parkour challenge," which happens to be right in front of them. Regardless of whether the player reaches the end, Hayden will eventually have to leave, returning the player to the house.

Maze Game
Near immediately after returning home, another notification is heard coming from the computer. It's again from Hayden, asking for the player to try out "this super cool new maze online!" In spite of its difficulty, they expect the player to be able to beat a high score. Your Trusted Adult allows the player to continue, but now stresses not to give away personal information. Returning to the digital pit, the player is now sent into a room walled with sea lanterns, covered in leaves with a floor made of green stained glass and jungle wood. On the side of the room is an NPC named Pro Gamer, who laments the difficulty of the aforementioned maze and offers to give a "cheat code" that somehow gives access to creative mode.
Once again, your Trusted Adult will chime in to instruct the player to make the right choice. In this case, saying no to a request from Pro Gamer to take the player's password. If the player says yes, they will be sent into a dingy, train station-like room filled with leaves  and lined with redstone torches, where a Security character will lament that the player's account has been hacked and task them to "search this area to recover all of [their] personal information." These are represented by paper scattered across the area, which include a password, full name, date of birth, phone number, home address, and email address. Upon collecting the personal information, the player is sent back to Pro Gamer and can make the correct choice.
Making the right choice will send the player to the Maze Game, which is set inside a maze of jungle leaves. Players can attempt to walk over the top of the maze, but will be stopped by a sign and barrier. Following a trail of cornflowers, the player can meet the Maze Builder, who apologizes for the difficulty but seems impressed by the player's time.

MineMart
After completing the maze, the player returns home again, where your Trusted Adult will reveal they got an email from "MineMart." It is revealed they ordered armor, which they suggest the player checks before dinner. Returning to the computer, however, reveals that something went wrong with the order, which sends the player into a digital store in front of three armor stands. At a nearby desk is the "Minemart Helper," who explains the situation.
The MineMart impersonation claimed they have had difficulty identifying the precise set of armor desired by the player, the Helper requesting to access the player's account and login information. Your Trusted Adult returns to say "Hmm," and nearby armor stands explain the truth, with the closest armor being leather armor colored to look like iron armor. Saying no confirms the Helper to be the perpetrator of a phishing scheme. Instead of supporting the Helper, the player is sent over to MineMart itself, in the real world. Saying Yes will send the player to the house but with the sky replaced with blue concrete with nine patches of sunflowers. Talking to your Trusted Adult triggers the fishy scene filled with cods, salmon and tropical fish. However, the fish in there are bad. After talking to Trusted Adult again you'll be sent back to try to choose the right one.
Approaching the MineMart Employee by a warehouse, who immediately helps with the order. In fact, they reveal there is no problem, and in fact is loaded in the truck they were driving. Checking the back of the truck will reveal emerald armor, being shipped to the house very soon.

Jungle Market
Returning home, your Trusted Adult will stress how important it is to not share account information, but then remember to buy a pumpkin pie from the "Jungle Market," which for unexplained reasons is something the player must act out.
Using a search engine on the computer sends the player to a representation of an online search, with five emeralds in their inventory. Several NPCs surround the player in a white concrete room, including:

Specialty Pie Co.
Pie There! Online Bakery
Pies'R'Us
Pie in the Sky
Arrrrrrr! PIE-rates Bakery
Jungle Market
Tropical Shop
Jungle Market's name tag is colored pink, so it is easy to identify. Every other store, in blue, will send the player into another dingy environment, this time resembling a farmer's market, with grass flooring, and acacia planks stands selling items including  lily pads, coal, wither roses, dead bushes, pumpkin seeds, wheat, raw cod, raw salmon, and cobwebs. At the end is a Shopkeeper, who will ask if the player wants their emeralds back, agreeing to return them if they can find all five, by pressing a button.
If the correct button is pressed, the player can return to the search and correct their mistake. Buying from the Jungle Market NPC will send the player to a physical Jungle Market, where a Pie Baker will explain that they are working on the pie as they speak. The player is given the option to either find the ingredients themselves or wait for it to be made by the staff. If the player declines to help, they will be able to simply buy the pie.
If the player chooses to find the ingredients, they will have to find them in several chests across a large environment. The closest is in a chest by a wheat field in front of the bakery, holding three wheat. The second is very closely by, but obscured by sugar canes, holding three sugars. The third closest is in another field of similar positioning, only with the chest (containing three wheat) on the far end. The fourth is beside a pen outside a house, identifiable by pumpkins inside and a stripped jungle exterior, containing three more sugar. The fifth is inside the pen itself, holding cocoa beans. The sixth is at the end of an expansive pumpkin farm, holding three more cocoa beans. After all the ingredients are found, the player returns home, your Trusted Adult thanking the player.
Suddenly, your Trusted Adult will reveal the armor has arrived outside, the door finally opening. Exiting the house, the player will find all the various helpful NPCs of the map surrounding the premises, alongside a floating certificate and two additional NPCs, Xbox Family Settings and Xbox Family Safety app. The ultimate reward for the map are the certificate (which can be downloaded), and emerald armor.

Quotes
External
“A fun, creative introduction to cyber safety and the principles of online safety and privacy.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
“Gaming is a fun and enjoyable experience. It should also be a part of a balanced life, where everyone can play responsibly within the boundaries they set, free from fear and intimidation. Learning to manage screen time, social interactions, online spending, and digital citizenship are key components of being safe at home.
In order to support these key components of being safe at home, we invite you to play CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm. This lesson will introduce young learners to the fundamentals of cybersecurity risks and strategies to be safe in digital spaces.„ — education.minecraft.net
“For young learners all over the world, going online is central to their learning, how they connect with friends, and having fun. While technology and gaming can have a positive impact on our lives, it’s crucial that students and their families learn how to be responsible digital citizens—these are important skills they can use throughout the rest of their lives.
We released a new immersive world, CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm, for Safer Internet Day to help young people learn to recognize common threats on the Internet, build strategies for protecting themselves and their information, and know where to go if they need help.„ — Teaching online safety in Minecraft with CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm
“We use the iconic villager's "hmm" to teach students to STOP and THINK before they CLICK!  This behavior will keep students safe as they expand their understanding of online safety risks.„ — Cleverlike Studios
Internal
“Welcome home! I'm your Trusted Adult and I will be helping you stay safe on the Internet and in digital spaces.
It is important that you always remember to STOP and THINK before you CLICK.„ — Your Trusted Adult's first dialogue
“Let's say "Hmm" and think about it.„ — Your Trusted Adult on a zombie approaching
“Hey, it's Hayden from school! This cool new game was just released. If you are allowed to play, let's team up and try out... My username is MineGamer1212.„ — MineGamer1212's introduction
“You made it! Totally rad...
 You have 4 friend requests.„ — Friend Manager
“Ask your Trusted Adult for permission to use the computer.„ — Computer if interacted with unprompted
“I'm a griefer.
I'll take your things.
I'll break your builds.
And I'll burn your trees.

Let me in your world so I can have some fun!„ — $#%&!'s poetry
“Greetings player!
Oh my! This maze is really rough.
For you, it may be too tough.
I can offer you a special cheat code,
That puts you in creative mode!
You'll pass all the others before,

And surely get the highest score.„ — Pro Gamer's poetry
“Hello! We can't wait for you to enjoy our pumpkin pies. We bake pumpkin pies daily using the finest ingredients from our very own farm. You will love our pumpkin pies or your emeralds back, guaranteed!„ — Jungle Market
“You have had a great Internet Adventure today! You learned about various ways to stay safe on the Internet and in digital spaces. We are proud of your choices... Always remember to stop and think before you click! I'll always be here to help if you have any questions or problems.
Oh look. MineMart just dropped off your new armor. It's safe to go get it. I'll be right here with you. Try it on so we can see how it looks!„ — Goodbye from your Trusted Adult
Video





History
Bedrock EditionMarch 29, 2022
CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm is released on the Marketplace.Minecraft Education?
CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm is released.June 19, 2024
CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm is updated.
Trivia
A common motif of the mob is using a villager's mumble (consistently referred to as a capitalized "Hmm") as a motto for the message of staying safe online.
In the player's house, a sign is hung above the entrance saying "Home Sweet Hmmm," and close to that is an end table with a sign saying "Home is Where the Hmm is."
When meeting antagonists, your Trusted Adult pops in to say they "like to say Hmm when [they're] making a choice."
Due to the narrative of the map involving Minecraft, it is one of several works to serve as metafiction. Unlike other similar stories, like The Crash and The Haven Trials, Minecraft characters such as villagers are shown coexisting with Minecraft the game.
Antagonists within the map are consistently shown speaking in poetry, the exception being the Helper, possibly to make them easier to deceive younger players.
Jungle Market and Pie Baker share a texture.
On the computer is a Windows 7 background. Specifically, the default wallpaper, img0 or Harmony.
The emerald armor is actually a retextured diamond armor.
There is an unused zombie NPC, which was likely supposed to represent the zombie encounter in the ending.
All of the real world areas are connected to the start, Minemart in the forest area, the maze in the mountains, the jungle market fater across the mountains, and the game in some further mountains.
Gallery



			Pack icon.


NPC renders



			Trusted Adult



			MineGamer1212



			Friend Manager



			Pro Gamer



			Security



			Maze Builder



			Helper



			MineMart



			Shopkeeper



			Pie Baker


Market Search



			Speciality Pie Co.



			Pie There! Online Bakery



			Pies'R'Us



			Pie in the Sky



			Tropical Shop



			Arrrrrrr! PIE-rates Bakery



			Jungle Market


Unused



			Zombie


Renders



			Computer



			Certificate



			Emerald armor


Textures



			Emerald Helmet



			Emerald Chestplate



			Emerald Leggings



			Emerald Boots



			Emerald Helmet, Chestplate and Boots



			Emerald Leggings


Official artwork






Promotional images



			Panorama of the map.



			The parkour server.



			MineMart.



			The Xbox controller.



			The market search.



			The pumpkin farm.



			Your Trusted Adult.


References

 "Online Safety Experience Created for Microsoft"     – cleverlike.com.

 "Cyber Safe: Home Sweet Hmm"     by Minecraft Education  – education.minecraft.net, February 7, 2022.

 "Harmony"     – Windows Wallpaper Wiki.

Navigation