This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Tags

Artificial Intelligence
Competition
Custom Mobs
Elementary
Middle School
Mining

Genre(s)

Educational

Website page

CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper in Minecraft Marketplace
CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper

{
    "title": "CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Artificial Intelligence\n*Competition\n*Custom Mobs\n*Elementary\n*Middle School\n*Mining",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "Educational",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp/minecraft/cybersafe-ai:-dig-deeper/62a02154-c25e-4b43-8be2-560b286af2b8 CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper in Minecraft Marketplace]\n*[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/cybersafe-ai-dig-deeper CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper is a lesson in Minecraft Education and a Marketplace map in Bedrock Edition, intended to teach players about using AI responsibly at school. It acts as a sequel to Good Game, taking place in the same city and school.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Day 1
1.2 Day 2
1.3 Day 3
1.4 Day 4
1.5 Day 5

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Gallery
5 Navigation

Summary
Day 1
The player starts the map in a black void with what resembles a key artwork with a sky background and four skins, with a cursor and a gray book and quill in their hotbar. The player can choose among the four skins to use by "throwing" the cursor, which starts a cutscene. In a city, the school bus stops near the school and the player and their three friends discuss about an esports championship taking place a few weeks later. Soon after, the esports captain gets fascinated by the class's STEM projects, asking for some ideas from them.
The player can then go to their STEM lab to start their lesson. The teacher announces that the class will start learning about 3D designs, and explains what they learned yesterday about 3D software. The player then can use their computer by logging in. Once logged in, they will find themselves in a black void, this time with the screen as an interactable wall. As a review, the teacher tasks their students to use the basic models they created during the last lesson. The player can place each part of the model by clicking radiating buttons. Back in the classroom, the teacher suggests using the model as a template rather than a finished model due to its oversimplicity. Seeing the complexicity of making a unique model, they advice the students to use the AI tool provided they "dig deeper".
As a first idea, Hans suggests creating an elephant model because of his research on elephants in Botswana. The teacher accepts the idea, tasking the students to create an elephant model. In the computer, the player can find the icon for the AI chatbot next to the model template. They can ask it to make a model, which offers two options: an artwork of an elephant and the wanted render of the elephant model. Choosing the artwork causes the teacher to remind the students to use the option that matches the template. Choosing the render makes the chatbot load the model to the player's 3D printer, which prints the model.
As homework, the teacher tasks the students to make another model using the AI assistant. Having remembered the esports fundraiser, Cristina suggests selling the models, and the teacher suggests making more unique models throughout the week.
Back home, the player's father (who is busy playing CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm) announces them that Aunt Joanie is staying for the week and she is in the guest room. Along the way, their mother tells them to do their homework as she makes a seafood dish for Aunt Joanie. The dish includes a crab, which inspires the player for a crab-shaped model. Upstairs, they can meet Aunt Joanie in the pink room on the left, then head to their bedroom to log into their computer.
On the screen, the player can find a game named Dig It!, the messages hub, and the design software. As a message, Cristina invites the player to the game after finishing their homework. Afterward, the player can print a crab model in the software with the same options as earlier: the wrong artwork and the right render. After finishing, the player can join Cristina's game, which leads them to Dig It!. There, the player starts on an iron trapdoor, which opens after the coundown and leads them to an underground 1-block wide glass pillar. Down there, the player must swap between a diamond pickaxe, a diamond axe, and a diamond shovel to dig through stone, oak logs, and dirt respectively. The game lasts 30 seconds before it ends, in which the player's mother calls them for dinner.

Day 2
The next day at school, students print their homework at their printers: everyone except the player has failed results after choosing the wrong model. Seeing this, the teacher gets fascinated by the player's crab model, but for the rest of the class, they and Cristina explain the importance of human oversight. The player can then write it down in their notebook, and the teacher tasks their students to apply their knowledge to correct their work.
After logging in, the player interacts with the AI chatbot to print a model for a chameleon, the school's mascot. Because of this, the entire class uses the same model, leaving them puzzled. The teacher tries to explain that the chameleon inspiration was caused by its presence nearly everywhere at school. To solve this issue, the teacher advices them to ask other people rather than AI as explained by them and Hans before the school bell rings, giving students the opportunity of gathering ideas.
In the hallway, some students have various ideas as seen in their thought bubbles while most do not, which can be revealed with the "Ask for idea" item. With this item, the player can unlock multiple model ideas, including a dragon from Custodian's thoughts on Wales, a peacock, a red panda, and a flamingo.
Back in the classroom, the player can print a model from every idea they had. Meanwhile, the teacher and Cristina explain the importance of guiding AI carefully while gathering reliable sources. The player can write this down in their notebook and come to the teacher to show them.
Back home, the player's mother asks for their help in trying out something in the kitchen. She states that a coworker of hers uses AI-written recipes and cannot make her own for Aunt Joanie's crab dish. The player then chooses whether to use it immediately or gather more information. If the latter was chosen, she tries to be more specific in her dish: crab, rice, avocado, and cuccumber. The AI reveals a crab suchi bowl with rice, avocado, and cuccumber. Then, the entire family has dinner with the bowl, and after Aunt Joanie questions about using AI, the player's mother explains she had to intervene.

Day 3
The next day at school, the teacher introduces output accuracy by tasking their students to make a bat-themed model. The output included two artworks: one of a bat with seven wings and another of a winged rat. The rest of the class complain about the tool's "inaccuracy", and the teacher explains that it was caused by incapacity to get accurate results. They also explain that the AI might have gotten the images from "fictional stories or from the idea that some people think bats are like rats that can fly". To answer Diego's question about reliable sources, the teacher suggests finding reliable information about bats in the library.
There, the player meets the librarian, who mentions six books about bats to choose from: Milton: The Rat Who Could Fly, The Secret Life of Bats, The World of Bats, The Lair of the Crystal Bat, Bobby Bat Rides the Bus, and A Guide to Bats. Only three books are correct, and the player has to find the books in a 3-minute interval while avoiding food and drinks wandering the library. Before starting, they have to choose a book, which will spawn floating.
Back in the classroom, the player can provide the AI chatbot the information they gathered, before choosing a model to print. The teacher, assisted by the esports captain, discuss the importance of gathering reliable information, which the player can write down.
Back home, Aunt Joanie calls the player to help her with a mod she found on the internet. The first result, Minecraft Phish, insists on being safe for the computer, raising the player's suspicion. There, the player can choose to accept or double check. If they rejected, Aunt Joanie finds out that the mod was actually a virus. Later, the player's mother notices their hard work at the STEM project.

Day 4
At school, the player notices their classmates Amanuel, Diego, Hans, and the esports captain staring at a chicken figure with Cristina's head. The first three see it ridiculous, while the esports captain feels rather sorry for Cristina, who was crying in the bathroom.
In the classroom, the principal announces that multiple figures of that type are all over the school, and suspects one of the player's classmates for having done it. She insists on privacy and accountability, and threatens to ban the class from the esports championship unless the figures get removed by the end of the day. Hearing this, the esports captain pleads to keep the class intact, Rowyn feels upset over getting removed and having Cristina bullied, and Brett sees it as a mere joke.
After removing the first figure in front of the door, the teacher insists on critical thinking while using AI. In the hallway, Albert points at the art classroom in front of the blue painting where a figure can be found. Further into the hall, Wei stands next to the third figure, feeling annoyed as they imagine a figure of theirs and mentioning that people were making posts about the figures. To the stairs leading down is Manjot, who mentions the fourth figure downstairs at the gymnasium. Down there, Chidi, a disabled basketball player, notices that the figure "has a motor!!!" running around the basketball court. After catching the figure, Chidi says that if their game footages were shared, they would have never gotten a scholarship. On the stairs leading up, Benjamin points at the library where the final figure was placed too high to reach. Upon finding all five figures, Rowyn calls the player to the principal's room to find out the culprit.
There, the five figures are arranged on the desk: three at the left and two at the right. Brett reveals himself as the creator of the figures, showing that he used Cristina's image for pure fun. Seeing it as an act of breaching privacy, Cristina reveals her image was personal information and advices Brett to ask permission first. As a punishment, the principal sends a note to Brett's parents and tasks him to write what he learned on a paper to bring to the desk by the end of the week.
Back in the classroom, Cristina gets an idea from Brett's act: mix up multiple models together, which inspires the teacher as a task for the next day. As a lesson, they and Brett discuss about using other people's likenesses without their consent on an AI, which the player can write down.
Back home, the player's father shows the player the advertisement of a mobile game where a celebrity of his shows the gameplay. If the player chose to fast check the information, their father reveals that the celebrity's face was used to mislead people, feeling relieved on not wasting money on the game. Afterward, the player's mother calls for the rest of the family for dinner.

Day 5
In the classroom, the teacher tasks the students to combine each part of different models to make the fundraiser more personal. With this feature, the player can choose any part of the models they printed previously in a 2-minute interval. After finishing the models, the teacher asks Hans about what the class learned about using AI responsibly, which the player can write down.
A few weeks later at the esports arena, the esports captain feels grateful for the fundraiser, and the principal awards the class with a certificate for the map. At the center of the arena is also an icon to play Dig It!.

Quotes
“Now is the time to build digital citizenship and AI literacy skills with CyberSafe AI: Dig Deeper! This engaging Minecraft Education adventure challenges students to go beyond the surface and explore AI ethics, critical thinking, and data literacy. Don’t just accept AI at face value. Dig deeper and discover the power of mindful technology use!„ — Marketplace description
“Remember, your design should match the template we created in class, it has a head on top, body in the middle, and legs on the bottom. When using AI always remember, "DIG DEEPER"„ — The teacher when choosing the wrong model
“I have an interesting idea. While not a real animal, DRAGONS are special in Wales. They are on the Welsh flag and stand for bravery and strength. DRAGONS remind us of the rich history and stories from Wales.„ — Custodian's statement about dragons and Wales
“It's okay, I know you didn't mean to upset me. Just ask next time!It did get me thinking though, – while I didn't like being turned into a chicken, the idea of mixing our model's parts could be a lot of fun!„ — Cristina's proposal for a blended model
Videos





Gallery



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Navigation