This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Minecraft Education and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Halloween Costumes Skin Pack

Skins

15

Price

 490 Minecoins

Release date

BE: October 23, 2015
EE: June 28, 2016
3DS: November 20, 2018

Website page

Halloween Costumes Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Halloween Costumes Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "15",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 490 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' October 23, 2015\n*'''EE:''' June 28, 2016\n*'''3DS:''' November 20, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=1d801b54-38aa-4ec0-bbf4-311a40d30268 Halloween Costumes Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Halloween Costumes Skin Pack is a skin pack that includes 15 skins themed by being dressed up for Halloween.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Minecraft Education
3.3 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Zombie costume

A dark skinned, bald figure wearing a mask of a zombie, on top of a gray jacket, cyan shirt, and jeans.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Iron Golem costume

A dark skinned, blonde figure wearing a mask of an iron golem, a very long shirt resembling an iron golem, pistachio pants, and boots.

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Creeper costume

A pale skinned figure wearing a hoodie of a creeper.

Cow costume

A masked figure wearing a helmet of a cow, a cowboy-like vest, and brass trimmed boots.

Enderman costume

A dim skinned figure wearing a hoodie of an enderman.

Ghast costume

A masked figure wearing a ghast on their head, with a black getup underneath.

Mooshroom costume

A light skinned person with brown hair, a mooshroom mask, a white T-shirt of what appears to be a red mushroom, gray jacket, and jeans.

Ocelot costume

A warm skinned figure wearing a costume of an ocelot.

Pig costume

A pale skinned figure wearing a mask of a pig, beige buttoned shirt, and navy pants.

Pink Sheep costume

A masked figure wearing a costume of a pink sheep.

Rainbow Sheep costume

A masked figure wearing a mask of a white sheep with a rainbow colored shirt.

Rainbow sheep would not be introduced until four years after this skin.

Skeleton costume

A brown skinned person wearing a skeleton mask with clothes meant to resemble a skeleton's bones.

Snow Golem costume

A costumed figure wearing a carved pumpkin, and a white shirt with brown, striped sleeves to resemble a snow golem.

Spider costume

A blonde figure wearing a mask of a spider on top of padded brown clothes.

Pigman costume

A person wearing a prosthetic of a zombie pigman, with a jacket colored like its flesh.

Quotes
“Dress up as your favorite Minecraft monster or animal!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.12.3
Added Halloween Costumes Skin Pack.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education0.14.2
The Halloween Costumes Skin Pack is added to Education Edition.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.8.13
Added Halloween Costumes Skin Pack.March 27, 2023
The skin pack is no longer purchaseable due to closure of the Nintendo 3DS eShop.
Trivia
A version of the pack containing only the creeper, enderman, and ocelot costumes is included as a default skin pack on Minecraft Education.
Gallery



			Key art used upon release for Pocket Edition.



			Timeline art used during the 15th anniversary of Minecraft.


References

 "Halloween skins coming to Pocket and Windows 10"   (Archive)  by Owen Hill  – Mojang.com, October 23, 2015.

Navigation