This article describes a feature planned for Minecraft Education. 
It has not appeared in any development versions yet, but is planned to be included in a future update.

While in Hardcore mode, the hearts representing the player's health look different, as they include dark red marks representing angry eyes inside the icon.

Hardcore is a variant of the Survival game mode where the world is locked to Hard difficulty and the player is unable to respawn after dying.

Contents

1 Features

1.1 Enabling
1.2 Death
1.3 Other details

2 Sounds
3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Development
4.2 Java Edition
4.3 Bedrock Edition

5 Issues
6 Trivia
7 References
8 See also
9 Navigation

Features
Enabling
The warning about Hardcore mode
Animation when Hardcore is toggled in Bedrock Edition
The game mode button showing Hardcore in Java Edition
The Hardcore toggle in Bedrock Edition
Hardcore can only be enabled in the Create new world screen; in Java Edition as a state of the "Game Mode" button, in Bedrock Edition as a separate toggle.
When creating a Hardcore mode world, "Allow Commands"/"Cheats", "Starting Map",‌[BE  only] and "Bonus Chest" world options are locked and disabled. In addition, Hardcore mode worlds are restricted to Hard difficulty which cannot be changed.

Hardcore cannot be disabled nor enabled for existing worlds. Realms or servers can use Hardcore by uploading existing Hardcore worlds to the server.The button of a Hardcore world on the Play screen (grid layout, not game over), showing the days played counter.
On the world selection menu, Hardcore mode worlds display a red Hardcore tag, and an icon.‌[BE  only]

Death
The key feature of Hardcore mode is that the player is not given the option to respawn upon death as they would in other game modes. Instead, the player is given two options: to spectate the world, which sets the player's game mode to Spectator mode and respawns them at the world's spawn point, or return back to the title screen. Re-opening the world after death simply returns to the same death screen or the Spectator mode depending on the outcome.


			The Hardcore death screen in Java Edition, where it says "Game Over!" instead of "You Died!".



			The Hardcore death screen in Bedrock Edition


Other details
Hardcore mode is specific to worlds, not players; the variable determining whether the world is in Hardcore mode is saved in level.dat.
In multiplayer, all players have Hardcore mode enabled — it is impossible to have some players in Hardcore and some not. Server operators can use the /gamemode command to change the game mode of themselves or another player. Players in Creative mode while on a Hardcore mode world still see Hardcore mode's death screen upon death.
It is normally impossible to toggle Hardcore mode once the world has been created, though it is possible to use external programs such as NBTExplorer to change it by setting the [Boolean] hardcore tag to either 1 (hardcore) or 0 (normal).
In Bedrock Edition, Hardcore can be switched on and off along with other world creation settings on any world by converting it to a world template and "re-creating" it. This will keep all world data, however, and even achievements can still be earned.
It is also possible to enable "Immediate Respawn" in Hardcore mode, allowing a player to skip the death screen and automatically switch to Spectator mode.

Sounds
SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksWhen Hardcore mode is toggled onfire.ignite​ ?1.00.8–1.2​ ?Hostile MobsWhen Hardcore mode is toggled onmob.ghast.fireball​ ?1.01.0​ ?BlocksWhen Hardcore mode is toggled offrandom.fizz​ ?0.51.8–2.4
Videos





History
Development
November 22, 2010
The idea of Hardcore mode came to Notch from a Minecraft gameplay blog on the PC Gamer site.September 23, 2011
Notch tweeted an image of a button that enables Hardcore mode.September 28, 2011
Notch tweeted an image of the Hardcore mode death screen.February 29, 2024
The changelog for Preview 1.20.80.20 states that Hardcore mode is to be included in Bedrock Edition.
Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.24 SURVIVAL TEST
Added Survival mode. During this time, death was permanent, meaning players could not respawn and the level needed to be restarted unless a save file had been created.Java Edition Infdev20100327
Death is no longer permanent in Survival mode, as the player is now able to respawn.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 2
Hardcore mode added. Upon death, the "Delete world" button and "You cannot respawn in hardcore mode!" [sic] text are shown, and the difficulty in the options menu appears as "Hardcore".1.3.112w17a
The "Bonus Chest" and "Allow Cheats" world options added in the prior snapshot can no longer be enabled in Hardcore mode. Server operators' commands are unaffected.12w18a
Hardcore mode is now properly supported in multiplayer. Previously, running a hardcore mode world on a server would force the difficulty to Hard, but players could still respawn as normal and the HUD displayed regular hearts.

When the player dies in hardcore mode on a server, the "Delete world" button is replaced by "Leave server", which automatically bans the player from the server when clicked.

Deleting the world/leaving the server after dying in hardcore mode now displays the message "You have died. Game over, man, it's game over!"12w21a
Multiplayer death bans now specify the reason "Death in Hardcore", shown when attempting to rejoin.12w25a
Added the ability to open worlds to LAN through the pause menu, which allows cheats to be enabled in Hardcore mode again.1.7.213w36a
Clicking the delete world/leave server button now displays a prompt asking if the player wants to quit to the title screen or respawn, as a result of the same prompt being added to the regular death screen. Choosing to "respawn" deletes the world/bans the player as normal, while "title screen" quits without doing anything special.1.814w02a
The difficulty in hardcore worlds is now displayed as "Hard" instead of "Hardcore".14w31a
Choosing "respawn" on the confirmation screen in singleplayer now causes the game to freeze, although the world is still deleted, and multiplayer behavior is unchanged.1.8.1pre1
Hardcore worlds can no longer be uploaded to Realms, as the auto-banning on death would cause the host to be permanently locked out of the realm until resetting it or restoring a backup.1.8.3
 The delete world/leave server button no longer shows the quit confirmation - instead, it opens the main menu screen but leaves the world/server loaded in the background without deleting it/banning the player.

As a result, the ability for hardcore mode to automatically delete worlds/ban players and the "Game over, man" message are effectively removed from this point forward, although the button labels have not yet been changed to reflect this.1.915w37a
The player now has the option to be put into Spectator mode on death instead of attempting to delete the world (which remains broken).

Removed the text "You cannot respawn in hardcore mode!" from the death screen.1.1519w35a
The "Delete world"/"Leave server" button on the Hardcore death screen has been changed to "Title screen" and no longer leaves the world loaded in the background, officially removing the option to delete the world/ban the player on death.1.21.224w38a
Hardcore mode is now available when creating a new world in Realms, and hardcore worlds can once again be uploaded.26.2pre5
The "Game Mode" and "Allow Commands" buttons are no longer available when opening Hardcore mode worlds to LAN.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.11.0build 1
 icons.png has been updated to feature hearts from Hardcore mode, which went unused.Bedrock Edition1.20.80Preview 1.20.80.22
Added a grayed-out toggle for Hardcore mode. It is currently mislabeled as "Harcore mode".1.21.0Preview 1.21.0.20
Added Hardcore mode. It currently is preview only.Preview 1.21.0.21
Changed the appearance of the Hardcore death screen, caused by the fix of MCPE-180287.1.21.20Preview 1.21.10.20
Added new visual elements to Hardcore mode in Create New World and new Edit World, and a sound effect when toggling Hardcore mode on or off.Preview 1.21.10.21
Added a button for exiting the world from the death screen when in Hardcore mode.September 28, 2024
Hardcore mode is announced to be added in the Bundles of Bravery drop.1.21.40
Hardcore mode is no longer preview only.26.10Preview 26.10.23
Hardcore worlds now show the amount of in-game days played on the play screen if the game rule is enabled.



			The Hardcore mode button posted on Twitter by Notch



			Notch's first image of a Hardcore death screen


Issues
Issues relating to "Hardcore" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
The joke "ultra hardcore" button
When Hardcore mode was announced, Notch jokingly posted an image of an 'ultra hardcore' mode where the premium status of the player's account would be revoked on death. This is not to be confused with the custom game mode of the same name.
The longest Hardcore world record lasted for 5 years. It ended in April 2019 when a baby zombie and a spider killed the record holder in a cave. A splash text called "Ph1lza had a good run!" was added in reference of him.
When a Hardcore mode world is loaded on a version released prior to Hardcore mode, the world is permanently converted into a Survival world.
References

 "The Chase the Clouds Update is here!"     – education.minecraft.net. "A gentle reminder that Hardcore mode and Vibrant Visuals are still cloud-dreams for another day—patience, dear explorers!"

 https://www.pcgamer.com/2010/11/20/the-minecraft-experiment-day-1-chasing-waterfalls/

 MC-10979

 MC-71981

 MC-30646

 MC-121007 – "You cannot respawn in hardcore mode!" message no longer appears as of version 1.9 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "It's the mode where the lave is extra dangerous."  – @slicedlime  on X (formerly Twitter), March 16, 2024

 "http://i.imgur.com/1DNGn.png"  – @notch (Markus Persson) on X (formerly Twitter), September 23, 2011

 "Ultra hardcore mode!"

 "Meet a Minecrafter: A Hardcore Tragedy"     by Kelsey Howard  – Minecraft.net, July 27, 2019.

See also
Tutorial:Hardcore mode
Tutorial:Ultra Hardcore survival
Tutorial:Restoring a Hardcore world
Navigation