This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Helmet of Champion

Material

Gold, diamond

Owner

 Zed



First appearance

The First Night

Latest appearance

The Finale

{
    "title": "Helmet of Champion",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Gold article, displayed as Gold), (link to diamond article, displayed as diamond)",
            "label": "Material"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:MCMSZedFace.png article, displayed as 16px) (link to Zed article, displayed as Zed)",
            "label": "Owner"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to The First Night article, displayed as The First Night)''",
            "label": "First appearance"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to The Finale article, displayed as The Finale)''",
            "label": "Latest appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MCMS Helmet of Champion.png"
    ]
}

A Helmet of Champion is a unique variant of golden helmet, trimmed with five diamonds. It appears in the episode "The First Night" in the Minecraft Mini-Series.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Properties
3 Biography
4 Gallery
5 Navigation

Appearance
The Helmet of Champion looks like a normal gold helmet, but is decorated with diamonds of various shapes on all sides.

Properties
The Helmet of Champion is used as a head ornament, similar to the Crown and as a means of head protection, however the Helmet of Champion is likely to have the same durability as its unadorned counterpart.

Biography
The Helmets of Champion, two in number, were apparently created before the series began. They were intended to be a reward for the team that passed all the challenges and won the show. When Durango and River pass the first challenge, Zed shows them the helmets, and CommuniKate says that they are a reward for the winning team. Later, when teams teleported to the Greek Islands, Zed, standing next to CommuniKate, puts on helmet.

Gallery



			Zed in Helmet of Champion


Navigation