Heroes of Goo Jit Zu

Genre

Elastic action figure

Created by

Moose Toys

{
    "title": "Heroes of Goo Jit Zu",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Elastic action figure",
            "label": "Genre"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Moose Toys article, displayed as Moose Toys)",
            "label": "Created by"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Heroes of Goo Jit Zu logo.svg"
    ]
}

Heroes of Goo Jit Zu is a toyline produced by Moose Toys, which has collaborated with Mojang Studios.

Contents

1 Background
2 Merchandise
3 Gallery
4 References
5 Navigation

Background

Heroes of Goo Jit Zu is a series of stretchable action figures, similar to Stretch Armstrong, with the characters having transparent insides exposing slime inside. The series began with its own roster of unique characters, but branched out to feature characters from other franchises, such as Sonic the Hedgehog, Toy Story, WWE, and One Piece.

Merchandise

Images

Name

Price

Release date

Description

Ref.

Figure

Box

Minecraft Hero Pack Steve

US$13.99

Minecraft has joined forces with the Heroes of Goo Jit Zu to become stretchy, crunchy, squishy figures!
Steve with Diamond Armor & Sword Minecraft figure has a unique super squishy goo filling!
Squish and stretch your Steve Minecraft figure up to 3x its size and watch as they return to their original shape
Kids can squish and squeeze their Goo Jit Zu Steve character to discover a hidden "Diamond Piece" inside
Minecraft has jumped off the screen and into your child's hands to create new squishy Heroes of Goo Jit Zu adventures!
The gooiest, stretchiest Heroes ever! Heroes of Goo Jit Zu figures are like no other! With their stretchy, squishy bodies, arms, and legs, these amazing sensory toys provide kids with a new GOOEY way to play with no mess!

Minecraft Hero Pack Creeper

US$13.99

Minecraft has joined forces with the Heroes of Goo Jit Zu to become stretchy, crunchy, squishy figures!
Creeper Minecraft figure has a unique super crunchy goo filling!
Squish and stretch your Creeper Minecraft figure up to 3x its size and watch as they return to their original shape
Kids can squish and squeeze their Goo Jit Zu Creeper character to discover a hidden "Gunpowder toy Piece" inside
Minecraft has jumped off the screen and into your child's hands to create new squishy Heroes of Goo Jit Zu adventures!
The gooiest, stretchiest Heroes ever! Heroes of Goo Jit Zu figures are like no other! With their stretchy, squishy bodies, arms, and legs, these amazing sensory toys provide kids with a new GOOEY way to play with no mess!

[verify]

US$14.99

Minecraft has joined forces with the Heroes of Goo Jit Zu to become stretchy, crunchy, squishy figures!
Unique Goo Fillings: The Enderman figure has a unique purple glucose goo filling!
Super Stretchy: Squish and stretch your Enderman figure up to 3x its size and watch as they return to their original shape.
Hidden Pieces Inside: Kids can squish and squeeze their Goo Jit Zu Enderman characters to discover a hidden Ender Pearl piece inside!
Create New Adventures: Minecraft has jumped off the screen and into your child's hands to create new squishy Heroes of Goo Jit Zu adventures!

Gallery






















References

 "💧 Water Vs Fire 🔥 | Heroes of Goo Jit Zu | Cartoons for Kids | Moose Mania"  – Moose Mania on YouTube, March 2, 2025

 "Heroes of Goo Jit Zu Minecraft Stretchy Characters, Steve with Diamond Armor & Sword, Super Squishy Goo Filling with Hidden Diamond Piece Inside, Stretch Him Up to 3 Times His Size - Sensory Toys"     by Heroes of Goo Jit Zu  – Amazon.

 "Heroes of Goo Jit Zu Minecraft Stretchy Characters, Creeper, Super Crunchy Goo Filling with Hidden Gunpowder Piece Inside, Stretch Him Up to 3 Times His Size - Sensory Toys"     by Heroes of Goo Jit Zu  – Amazon.

 "Heroes of Goo Jit Zu Minecraft Stretchy Characters, Collect Enderman with Ender Pearl, Unique Goo Fillings with Hidden Pieces Inside, Stretch Them Up to 3 Times Their Size"     by Heroes of Goo Jit Zu  – Amazon.

Navigation