This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition, Minecraft Education and New Nintendo 3DS Edition. 

Holiday Skin Pack 2015

Skins

33

Price

 310 Minecoins

Release date

BE: December 14, 2015
EE: June 28, 2016
3DS: September 13, 2017

Website page

Holiday Skin Pack 2015 in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Holiday Skin Pack 2015",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "33",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 310 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*'''BE:''' December 14, 2015\n*'''EE:''' June 28, 2016\n*'''3DS:''' September 13, 2017",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=b98cd0eb-a09e-4147-a49d-cb438995e620 Holiday Skin Pack 2015 in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Holiday Skin Pack 2015 is a holiday-themed skin pack in celebration of Christmas in 2015, and has 33 skins to choose from. It was the first Bedrock Edition skin pack to include extra geometry on the skin model and includes all skins that were previously part of the Festive Skin Pack for Legacy Console Editions.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History

3.1 Bedrock Edition
3.2 Minecraft Education
3.3 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Screenshots
5.2 Renders

6 References
7 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Bad Santa

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Christmas Creeper

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Christmas Pudding

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Christmas Skeleton

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Christmas Tree

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Father Christmas

A dark-skinned man who resembles a more traditional interpretation of Santa Claus

Gingerbread Creeper

A gingerbread man with a creeper face

Gingerbread Man

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Gingerbread Woman

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Toy Crafter

This skin resembles the "Green Elf" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.

Marley's Ghost

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Mother Christmas

A dark-skinned woman who is presumably Father Christmas’s wife

Mrs. Claus

This skin resembles the "Mrs. Claus" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.

Snug Snoozy

A dark-skinned person in winter attire

Parka?

This skin resembles the "Parka Steve" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.

Present

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Red Elf

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Reindeer

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Robin

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Red-Nose

This skin resembles the "Rudolph" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.

Santa Claus

This skin resembles the "Santa" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.

Santa Steve

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Scrooge

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Casual Comfy

A tan-skinned person in winter attire

Snow Golem

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Snowman

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Puffed Padded

A light-skinned person in winter attire

Warm Wooly

Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Jumper?

This skin resembles the "Winter Steve" skin in the Festive Skin Pack.
Free to use without purchasing the pack.

Tasty Gingerbread

A gingerbread man decorated with a smiling face using white frosting

Tomte

A gnome-like character from Nordic folklore who likes porridge

Zombie Pudding

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Zombie Turkey

This skin was originally part of the Festive Skin Pack and was later added to this skin pack.

Quotes
“Dress as one of 35 festive skins for the holidays!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.13.1
Added Holiday Skin Pack 2015.

The skin pack included 15 skins at launch: "Gingerbread Creeper", "Tomte", "Casual Comfy", "Snug Snoozy", "Warm Wooly", "Puffed Padded", "Parka?", "Jumper?", "Mother Christmas", "Father Christmas", "Santa Claus", "Mrs. Claus", "Toy Crafter", "Tasty Gingerbread" and "Red-Nose".Bedrock EditionSeptember 21, 2017
Due to the Better Together Update, the remaining 18 skins from the Festive Skin Pack are added to the Holiday Skin Pack 2015. Owners of the Festive Skin Pack on Legacy Console Edition receive this skin pack for free when updating to Bedrock Edition.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft Education0.14.2
The Holiday Skin Pack 2015 is added to Education Edition.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added the Holiday Skin Pack 2015 that includes the 15 original skins.
Trivia
Despite the Marketplace description stating that 35 skins are included, the skin pack only contains 33 skins.
A version of the pack containing only Jumper?, Warm Woolly, Snug Snoozy, and Casual Comfy is included as a default on Minecraft Education.
Gallery
Screenshots



			A screenshot used as a header from a promotional mojang.com blog.



			GIF released in promotion of this pack.



			Screenshot used in the skin pack's announcement.



			Tomte in a screenshot for the Super Duper Graphics Pack.


Renders



			An unused model in the Apple TV Edition of the Bad Santa skin which would have given a redesign similar to other skins in the same pack.


References

 "Pocket Edition gets Festive Skin Pack! Bug fixes!"   (Archive)  by Owen Hill  – Mojang.com, December 16, 2015.

 "Spread Cheer with the Holiday Skins Pack for Minecraft on Windows 10 and Pocket Edition!"     – Xbox Wire, December 16, 2015.

Navigation