The Home screen in Minecraft Blast.
The Home screen is the main menu of Minecraft Blast. The home screen consists of all the buttons and tabs that can be found within the game acting as the introductory interface enabling access to all gameplay features and screens.

Contents

1 HUD
2 Tabs and buttons
3 History
4 Gallery

4.1 Promotional screenshots
4.2 Assets
4.3 Screenshots

5 Navigation

HUD
The heads-ups display is a system showing the player's condition as well as communicate the player's progression. The HUD consists of:

Profile Icon - displays the current companion used by the player.
Lives - shows the current amount of lives the player has, losing a level means the player loses one life. The maximum lives a player can have is five. If the player has infinite lives activated, a timer will appear showing how much time the player has to make use of them.
Emeralds counter - counts how many emeralds the player currently possesses, earned mainly by completing levels. Emeralds are used to revive the player if they have failed at a level giving them an additional 5 moves.
Energy - tracks the amount of energy the player currently has, only obtainable by completing levels. Energy is used to complete tasks.
Settings - allows the player to change various in-game settings.
Tabs and buttons
The tabs can be found at the very bottom of the home screen. Above are the buttons which lets the player play the levels and do the tasks. The tabs and buttons consist of:

Levels - play the current level.
Tasks - access the current tasks.
Shop - coming soon.
Collections - coming soon.
Home - the main menu of the game.
Journey - displays the player's progress through the chapters.
Social (Team in the menu) - coming soon.
History
Minecraft Blast0.11
Added the Home screen.
Gallery
Promotional screenshots



			Home screen found within minecraft.net


Assets



			Completed asset



			Completed levels asset



			Construction chicken asset



			Placeholder background asset


Screenshots



			The journey screen



			The shop screen



			The collections screen



			The social screen


Navigation