This article is about the block.   For the crash utility, see Hopper (crash utility).

Hopper

Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

View all renders

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

Tool

Blast resistance

4.8

Hardness

3

Luminous

No

Transparent

JE: YesBE: Partial (diffuses sky light, -2 to light)

Waterloggable

JE: NoBE: Yes

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

No

Map color

 11 STONE

Note block instrument

Default (Harp)

{
    "extratext": "[[#Renders|View all renders]]",
    "title": "Hopper",
    "images": [
        "Hopper (D).png",
        "Hopper (D) BE.png"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=Invicon Wooden Pickaxe.png: Sprite image for Wooden Pickaxe in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|A wooden pickaxe or better is required to mine this block)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "4.8",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "3",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''JE''': Yes<br>'''BE''': Partial <small>(diffuses sky light, -2 to light)</small>",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' No<br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' Yes",
            "label": "(link to Waterlogging article, displayed as Waterloggable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: rgb(112, 112, 112); border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> 11 STONE</span>",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Default (Harp)",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Hopper"
    ]
}



 There is a related tutorial page for this topic! 
See Tutorial:Hopper.

A hopper is a low-capacity storage block that can be used to collect item entities directly above it, as well as to transfer items into and out of other containers. A hopper can be locked with redstone power to stop it from moving items into or out of itself.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Crafting
1.3 Natural generation

2 Usage

2.1 Container
2.2 Crafting ingredient
2.3 Redstone component

2.3.1 Redstone signals
2.3.2 Collecting items

2.3.2.1 Cooldown

2.3.3 Pushing and pulling items
2.3.4 Bee nests and beehives
2.3.5 Container interactions

3 Sounds

3.1 Generic
3.2 Unique

4 Data values

4.1 ID
4.2 Block states
4.3 Block data

5 Achievements
6 Videos
7 History

7.1 Java Edition
7.2 Bedrock Edition
7.3 Legacy Console Edition
7.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
7.5 Data history

7.5.1 Java Edition
7.5.2 Bedrock Edition

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Renders

10.1.1 Java Edition
10.1.2 Bedrock Edition

10.2 Screenshots

11 References
12 External links
13 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
A hopper drops itself and its contents if mined with a pickaxe. Using any other item to mine a hopper drops only its contents.

Block

Hopper

Hardness

3

Tool

Breaking time (sec)

Default

15

Wooden

2.25

Stone

1.15

Copper

0.9

Iron

0.75

Diamond

0.6

Netherite

0.5

Golden

0.4

OptionsEfficiency000Haste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

 These durations ignore any other influential factors (e.g., Mining Fatigue) and are measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Mining efficiency.

Crafting
A hopper can be crafted from a chest and 5 iron ingots.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Iron Ingot +Chest

Natural generation
Hoppers generate above barrels in the trial chambers.

Usage
See also: Tutorial:Hopper

Hoppers can point down or sideways.
A hopper can be used as a container, as a crafting ingredient, and as a redstone component.
A hopper has an "output" tube at its bottom that can face down or sideways and provides a visual indication of which block the hopper is set up to drop its items into, if that block has an inventory. To place a hopper, use the Place Block control while aiming at the surface to which its output should face (Hoppers do not orient themselves automatically). To place a hopper directly on the face of an already interactable block, the player can sneak while placing the hopper. Attempting to place a hopper aimed on the bottom face of a block instead faces downward. With some blocks, such as the furnace and brewing stand, the hopper has multiple uses. A hopper does not change direction after placement, and it is not attached to the container it faces; the container can be removed or replaced, and the hopper remains unchanged.
In Java Edition, hoppers cannot be moved by pistons. Despite not having a full top surface, a few redstone components that require a support can be placed on top of hoppers, but not on their sides.

Container
Hopper GUI showing the hopper's five slots of inventory at the top and the player's inventory below
A hopper can be used as a container and has 5 slots of inventory space.
To open the hopper GUI, use it. To move items between the hopper inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the hopper GUI is open, drag or shift-click the items. To exit the hopper GUI, use the Esc key, B button or circle button, depending on the device.
By default, the GUI of a hopper is labeled "Item Hopper". A hopper's GUI label can be changed by naming the hopper in an anvil before placing it, or, in Java Edition, by using the data command (for example, to label a hopper at (0,64,0) "Steve's Hopper", use /data merge block 0 64 0 {CustomName:'"Steve's Hopper"'}).
In Java Edition, a hopper's GUI can be "locked" (or subsequently unlocked) by setting the hopper's lock tag with the data command. If a hopper's lock tag is not blank, the hopper cannot be accessed except by players holding an item that matches the item predicate in the lock tag. For example, to lock a hopper at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "Steve's Key" can access the hopper, use /data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"Steve's Key"}}}.

Crafting ingredient

Name
Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Minecart with Hopper

Hopper +Minecart

Redstone component
See also: Redstone circuit and Redstone components § Hopper

Flowchart of hopper logic
While a hopper is neither powered by a redstone signal nor in cooldown, it operates with three functions:

Push a single item from its own inventory into a container it faces
Pull a single item into its inventory from a container above it
Collect item entities (free-floating items in the world) into its inventory from the space above it
A hopper first attempts to push any items inside it. Afterward, it checks if the block above it is a type of container. If so, it attempts to pull from it. Otherwise, the hopper attempts to collect item entities. Notably, hoppers can push to and pull from other hoppers, forming hopper pipes or hopper chains, which allow transporting items across several blocks and are further discussed below.

Redstone signals
When a hopper receives a redstone signal, all three of its functions stop: in this situation the hopper is locked/disabled. Once the hopper loses power, its activity resumes as it goes back to being unlocked/enabled. Depowering a locked hopper does not affect its cooldown time. Therefore, unlocking a hopper that was not already in cooldown results in it starting to pull, push, or collect items as soon as it gets ticked.
In Bedrock Edition, the hoppers can only be locked on the input/consume redstone tick (C-tick).
While a locked hopper does not push or pull/collect items, it may still receive items from droppers, crafters and other hoppers, and may have its items pulled out by another hopper beneath it. Hence, the item flow in a horizontal hopper pipe may be stopped by locking just one of the hoppers, but stopping a vertical hopper pipe requires locking two adjacent hoppers at the same time, such that both the pushing of the top one and the pulling of the bottom one are stopped.
A hopper does not output any redstone signals by itself, but its fullness can be read using a redstone comparator.
In Java Edition, if the hopper being read is part of a horizontal hopper pipe, the comparator can individually read each item passing through the chain, because items are pushed through the hoppers one by one at a speed that is manageable by the comparator. If there is an uninterrupted stream of items, the comparator does not switch off in between items. On the other hand, in a vertical hopper pipe, some of the hoppers may never produce a reading above 0, even with a continuous stream of items, as pushes and pulls both occur in the span of 0 or 1 game ticks: The hoppers' items get pulled out shortly after they're pushed in and this isn't measurable by a comparator, since comparators need measurements lasting at least 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds, barring lag) to produce a reading.

Collecting items
A hopper collects items that are dropped inside of it, as well as items dropped in the block position above, assuming said position is not occupied by a container or by a full block that doesn't have the #does_not_block_hoppers tag (see § Bee nests and beehives).‌[JE  only] Items dropped inside of the hopper are picked up regardless of the block above.
Items are gathered from the entire block space above the hopper, meaning that items sitting on partial blocks such as soul sand directly above a hopper can be collected.
Collected items are placed in the leftmost empty slot of a hopper's inventory. If there are multiple dropped items above the hopper, the hopper collects them in the order they entered the chunk containing the hopper. This can be observed by pushing items onto a locked hopper from an adjacent chunk: regardless of which item lands first, the hopper will always collect the one that entered the chunk the earliest.

Cooldown
Hoppers usually check for dropped items every game tick and they can collect items even before they are picked up by a player or destroyed by lava. After collecting an item (or stack of items), a hopper enters a cooldown period that lasts 8 game ticks (0.4 seconds, barring lag).
Hoppers collect groups of items all at once rather than collecting them as single items one at a time. As a result, hoppers can collect item entities much faster than they can pull items from a container. Pulling from a moving minecart with chest or minecart with hopper is even slower, since the minecart is not always above the hopper.

Pushing and pulling items
A hopper with a storage container above it (such as a  chest, dropper, composter,minecart with chest,  or another hopper) attempts to pull from the container instead of checking for floating items above it, and hence can not collect dropped items. A hopper that has both a container block and one or more container entities above itself pulls items only from the container block. A hopper always tries to push or pull items using the leftmost available slot. When a hopper is removing items from a chest, the items disappear from left to right. Similarly, when filling up a chest, the chest fills up from left to right. Hoppers prioritize pulling from the first slot of a container over pulling into the first hopper slot. If a hopper has stone in its first slot and nothing in its second while the container it is pulling from has chicken in its first slot but stone in the second, the hopper pulls the chicken from the first slot of the container into its empty second slot. However, if the hopper is unable to pull the chicken, such as if all slots are filled with stone, the hopper pulls the stone from the second slot of the container instead. Similarly, hoppers prioritize pushing from their first slot over pushing into the first slot of a container. If a hopper has stone in its first slot and chicken in its second while the container it is pushing to has chicken in its first slot but stone in the second, the hopper pushes stone from its first slot into the second slot of the container.
In Java Edition, the checks done by a hopper while pulling generally require less processing than the checks done by a hopper attempting collection. Therefore, a chain of hoppers topped with composters, storage containers, or full blocks (keep in mind that full blocks do not prevent hoppers from checking if there are minecarts with chests, minecarts with hoppers, or boats with chests above them) rather than air/non-full blocks has better performance and lower potential for processing lag.  The performance improvement achieved is correlated with the number of storage slots the container has - for example a dropper will have better performance than a barrel. The single best block for performance is the composter. In Bedrock Edition, a chain of hoppers with air or non-container blocks on top has better performance than a chain of hoppers topped by container blocks. This may be because, even though hoppers with containers on top do not check for items, they do check for hopper-minecarts and chest-minecarts to pull from, and that involves scanning the chunk entity list.

A

B

Push then pull

Chest A is full of items while the hopper and chest B are empty.
Item pushes and pulls are processed in the same game tick, but pushes are processed before pulls. In the schematic, the empty hopper first pulls an item from chest A as it cannot push anything into chest B. After the cooldown, the hopper first pushes its item into chest B before pulling another item from chest A, both pushing and pulling in the same tick, and the process repeats. The hopper stops pulling when A is empty, and stops pushing when B becomes full.
After pulling and/or pushing items, a hopper enters an 8 game tick (0.4 seconds, barring lag) cooldown period (a transfer rate of 2.5 items per second, barring lag).
In Bedrock Edition, when an item is pushed into an empty hopper (a player manually placing the item in the hopper does not count), it starts an 8-game-tick cooldown period. In Java Edition, when an item is pushed into an empty hopper, the cooldown of that hopper lasts 7 game ticks (0.35 seconds, barring lag) instead. Pushing an item into a hopper that isn't empty does not trigger its cooldown.

Bee nests and beehives
Despite being full blocks, a hopper can still collect items that are inside of bee nests and beehives. This allows hoppers to collect honeycomb when bee nests and beehives are sheared by the player or a dispenser.

Container interactions
Some containers interact with hoppers in specific ways:

Barrel, boat with chest, dispenser, dropper
Hoppers interact normally with barrels, dispensers, droppers, and boats with chests.
Brewing stand
A working hopper on the top face of a brewing stand deposits only into the ingredient slot and it can push only valid brewing ingredients. A hopper on side face of a brewing stand can deposit only blaze powder or bottles (including empty bottles) into the three brew slots. A hopper underneath a brewing stand always extracts from the three brew slots, whether brewing is finished or not—The hopper must be locked to allow potions to finish brewing.
Chest, trapped chest
Large chests and large trapped chests are treated as a single container: a hopper depositing into a large chest fills up the entire chest and a hopper underneath a large chest empties the entire chest. Trapped chests being accessed by a player lock any adjacent hoppers, per the standard behavior of a hopper next to an active power source.
Chiseled bookshelf
Hoppers and minecarts with hoppers can insert and remove books from the bookshelf. As with any other container, items are taken from the first slot that has an item that can fit in the hopper and are inserted into the first empty slot.
Composter
Hoppers above composters can push compostable items into the composter's top face, with a chance of increasing the compost level as if the player used the item on the composter. Items that are not compostable cannot be pushed into the composter. Hoppers below the composter can pull bone meal when the composter is in stage 8, emptying the composter and resetting it to stage 0. Hoppers to the side of a composter do not interact with it.
Crafter
Hoppers can insert ingredients in the crafting grid. Items are distributed in enabled slots, going left to right starting from the first row; if the crafter has all item slots filled then items are added to the lowest count item stack of the same type. A hopper below a crafter collects the ingredients from the crafting grid, not the resulting item.
Decorated pot
Hoppers can deposit up to a stack of a single type of item into a decorated pot. Items are not pushed if the decorated pot is full or the pot contains a different item. Using a hopper (or a minecart with hopper) is the only way to retrieve items from a decorated pot without breaking it.
Ender chest
Hoppers cannot interact with ender chests in any way.
Furnace, blast furnace, smoker
A working hopper pointing into the top of a furnace deposits only into the ingredient slot. It can push any item, including items that can't be smelted by the furnace. A hopper pointing into the side of a furnace deposits into the fuel slot, and only items that are usable as fuel. A hopper below a furnace pulls everything from the output slot and empty buckets from the fuel slot left over from using lava buckets as fuel. When a hopper removes items from a furnace, the experience points are 'stored' in the furnace until a player removes at least one smelted item, or the furnace block is broken.
 Other hoppers
A sequence of three or more hoppers, each pushing items into the next, is called a hopper pipe. Working horizontal hopper pipes simply push items into each other at the expected rate of 2.5 items per second, but vertical hopper pipes are more complicated, as the hoppers are trying both to pull and to push. When a vertical pipe pulls from a single container, it simply transfers items at 2.5 items per second because the transfer rate is limited by the first hopper pulling items from the container. If a stack of items is in a vertical pipe, the items can be transferred twice as fast, because the hopper with the item stack is pushing items down while the hopper below it is also pulling items down.
Shelf
Hoppers and minecarts with hoppers can insert and remove items from the shelf. Items are inserted into the first empty slot and extracted from the first slot that contains items, following standard container behavior.
Jukebox
Hoppers can insert music discs into jukeboxes, and extract the music discs after they finish playing. A jukebox emits a redstone signal while playing a disc, locking any adjacent hoppers.
Lectern
Hoppers cannot remove or place books on lecterns. The redstone pulse emitted from a lectern when a page is turned can temporarily lock hoppers.
Minecart with chest, minecart with hopper
Unlocked hoppers fill minecarts with chests and minecarts with hoppers if any part of the entity's hitbox is within the hopper's target block-space. Hopper minecarts try to pull items from the hopper at high speed. Hoppers can pull items from minecarts above them, so rails can be placed directly on the top face of a hopper. If a detector rail is in the right position, it could lock the hopper per standard redstone-hopper behavior.
Shulker box
Hoppers cannot put shulker boxes into other shulker boxes. This allows for the creation of certain item filters.
Otherwise, hoppers interact with shulker boxes normally.
Sounds
Generic
Despite being composed almost entirely of iron, hoppers do not use iron sounds.
Java Edition:

v
t
e metal sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.metal.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.01.216​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.metal.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.01.216​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.metal.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.7516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.metal.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.51.2516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.metal.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.516
Bedrock Edition:

v
t
e metal sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.stonesubtitles.block.generic.break​1.01.1–1.2​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placeduse.stonesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.01.2–1.25​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.stonesubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.30.75​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.351.0​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.121.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.stonesubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.221.0
Unique
Java Edition

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Chest lockedBlocksWhen a player attempts to open a hopper locked using the [NBT Compound / JSON Object] lock tagblock.chest.locked​​subtitles.block.chest.locked​​​1.01.016
 MC-98316 – Wrong subtitles caused by missing distinction

Bedrock Edition: None

Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierForm
Translation key HopperhopperBlock & Item
block.minecraft.hopper
NameIdentifier
 Block entityhopper

Bedrock Edition:

HopperIdentifierNumeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key Blockhopper154Block & Ungiveable Itemitem.hopper
tile.hopper.name
 Itemhopper527Item—
tile.hopper.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Unavailable with /give command

NameSavegame ID
 Block entityHopper

Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  enabledtruefalsetrueTrue if hopper can move items to and from its inventory.When the hopper is being powered by redstone current, this is set to false.
facingdowndowneastnorthsouthwestThe direction the hopper's output points.The hopper pushes items into containers in this direction only.
Bedrock Edition:

  NameMetadata Bits
  Default value
  Allowed valuesValues forMetadata Bits
  Description
  facing_direction0x10x20x400123401234The direction the hopper's output points.The hopper pushes items into containers in this direction only.
0: Output facing down
1: Output facing up (unused)
2: Output facing north
3: Output facing south
4: Output facing west
5: Output facing east
toggle_bit0x8falsefalsetrue011 if hopper cannot move items to and from its inventory.When the hopper is being powered by redstone current, this is set to true.
Block data
A hopper has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition:

See also: Block entity format

[NBT Compound / JSON Object] Block entity data
Tags common to all block entities see Template:Nbt inherit/blockentity/template
Tags common to all objects that can be renamed see Template:Nbt inherit/nameable/template
Tags common to all containers that can be locked see Template:Nbt inherit/lockable/template
Tags common to all objects that use loot tables to produce items see Template:Nbt inherit/lootable/template
[NBT List / JSON Array] Items: List of items in this container. Represents the minecraft:container component. The component is still present on the block entity, even if the tag does not exist (due to a loot table existing instead).
[NBT Compound / JSON Object]: An item, including the slot tag.
An item stack in a container slot see Template:Nbt inherit/item/template
[Int] TransferCooldown: Time until the next transfer in game ticks, naturally between 1 and 8 or 0 if there is no transfer.

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherFreight StationUse a Hopper to move an item from a Chest Minecart to a Chest.Use a Hopper to move an item from a Minecart with Chest or a Boat with Chest to a Chest.15BronzeSmelt Everything!Connect 3 Chests to a single Furnace using 3 Hoppers.Be within the range of three chests connected to a Furnace with 3 Hoppers.Note: The demonstration shown in the image would not give the achievement.15Bronze
Videos





History



This section would benefit from the addition of more sounds. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable sounds to the section.The specific instructions are: Sounds before 14w31a

There is an associated technical blocks page for the internal item form of this block; see Technical blocks/Hopper.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.513w01a
     Added hoppers.

 There is a temporary "work in progress" sprite for hoppers in the inventory.

Hoppers use sounds associated with wooden blocks.

Hoppers can be crafted from a chest and stone blocks with the following recipe:

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Stone +Chest

13w01b
Rails can now be placed on top of hoppers.

Hoppers no longer load items into minecarts without chests.13w02a
 The inventory sprite of hoppers has been changed.

 The item of hoppers appears bugged when placed in an item frame or as a dropped item on Fancy graphics settings.

Applying a redstone signal to a hopper now deactivates the hopper until the signal is removed.

Hoppers can no longer be used as fuel in a furnace.

Hoppers are now crafted using 5 iron ingots and a chest rather than 5 stone and a chest.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Iron Ingot +Chest

Hoppers now pull only from the output slot of furnaces.

     The texture of hoppers has been given a unique texture. Hoppers no longer use the cauldron texture. Note that the top texture does not rotate with facing direction.

The preferred tool is now a pickaxe, rather than the axe.13w02b
Hoppers now treat large chests properly, no longer needing two hoppers connected to them to fill up the entire inventory.

Hoppers no longer take items from containers when powered via a redstone current.

Hoppers now display correctly as a dropped or framed item.13w03a
Hoppers are now used to craft a minecart with hopper.

Hoppers can now empty a minecart with hopper.1.5.1pre
Hoppers now take empty buckets out of furnace fuel slots.1.7.2release
     The UV of all blocks is broken on certain sides as a result of MC-37106 (few cases are listed on the wiki so far - this is a future project). This includes hoppers.1.7.413w47a
     MC-37106 has been fixed, reverting hoppers to their pre-1.7.2 appearances.13w48a
This version fixed MC-190, which hoppers were allegedly subject to since their introduction. However, a comparison of hopper UV in 13w02a and 14w08a failed to reveal any visible differences, even accounting for the example images on the ticket. More research is needed on this matter.1.8?
Hoppers no longer generate multiplayer lag when idle.14w10a
     Hoppers now use block models rather than having a hardcoded shape. This brings multiple changes: the inside texture now rotates with the hopper rather than being constant, the inside planes of hoppers are now shaded/have ambient occlusion, and some minor UV changes have occurred, notably on the smallest cuboid.14w31a
Hoppers now use metallic sounds.1.915w33c
A hopper now generates as a part of the end ship in the end cities.15w41a
End ships no longer contain a hopper.15w43a
Loot tables have been added; hoppers can now use loot tables.15w43c
     The UV on the hopper model has changed, resulting in minor differences, particularly to the smallest cuboid. This is likely due to the fix for MC-73401.15w44a
     A mapping issue introduced in the previous snapshot for the sides of the large funnel region has been fixed. This may be due to the fix for MC-50344.1.9.1pre1
A hopper can now push into and pull items from a blocked chest.1.1116w32a
The hopper's cooldown has been aligned to the global game time, as an attempt to fix MC-105560. Since the majority of redstone components are not aligned to the global game time, this causes hopper timings to be seemingly random in most situations.16w35a
The change to the hopper's cooldown that was made in 16w32a has been reverted, but the fix to MC-105560 was mantained.

Non-empty hoppers do not enter cooldown when an item is pushed into them anymore.

Blocks that push an item into an empty hopper now apply a cooldown to it even if that hopper was already in cooldown, effectively overriding the previous cooldown.16w43a
The hopper's cooldown is broken yet again, as items do not get moved by hoppers at a regular speed.pre1
Custom hopper cooldowns (which can be set with commands) that last more than 8 game ticks cannot be overridden by blocks that push items into the hopper anymore.

MC-109303 has been fixed, which means hopper clocks now work fine once again.

Now, if an empty hopper has an item pushed into it by another hopper, the cooldown of the former hopper will always last 7 game ticks. This change solves some of the hoppers' locationality issues.1.1418w43a
     The textures of hoppers have been changed.19w03c
Hoppers now use correct cullface arguments, and some redundant faces have also been deleted.1.1922w13a
Hoppers no longer drop when breaking a minecart with hopper.1.19.3ExperimentUpdate 1.2022w44a
Hoppers can now interact with chiseled bookshelves.1.19.423w07a
Hoppers can now interact with jukeboxes.1.20.524w07a
Hoppers no longer try to pick up item entities if there is a full block placed above it, except for beehives and bee nests.1.21.224w33a
Hoppers now generate above barrels at chamber entrances in trial chambers.Upcoming Java Edition26.3snap4
Added the #cushion_uses_collision_shape block tag.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.14.0build 1
[verify] Added hoppers. Upward hoppers also exist.v0.15.0build 1
Hoppers can now be moved by pistons.Bedrock Edition1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
     The textures of hoppers have been changed.1.19.70Preview 1.19.70.20
Hoppers can now collect items through all blocks that have a lower height than a full block.1.21.30Preview 1.21.30.21
Hoppers now generate above barrels at chamber entrances in trial chambers.1.21.50Preview 1.21.50.24
Hoppers drop themselves only if mined using a pickaxe, matching Java Edition.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU19CU71.121.121.12Patch 11.0.1
 Added hoppers.   1.90
[verify] The textures of hoppers have been changed.1.91
Hoppers can now fill composters.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
[verify] Added hoppers.
Data history
Java Edition
Java Edition1.513w01a
​[more information needed]

 Hoppers with a metadata value of 1 visually point in no direction. They functionally push items upward, however the behavior is inconsistent. It is currently only possible to obtain these through world editing.13w02a
 "Upwards" hoppers also now use the new texture.1.7.2?
Added /setblock, which can be used to place the invalid data value versions of hoppers.release
 The UV of upward-facing hoppers is also now incorrect.1.7.413w47a
 The UV on upwards hoppers is also now fixed.1.814w10a
 The upwards hopper no longer has a model.14w26a
The upwards hopper has been removed.1.1317w47a
Prior to The Flattening, this block's numeral ID was 154.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
 Upwards-facing hoppers now look like this.
Issues
Issues relating to "Hopper" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
A real-world hopper is a large, pyramidal or cone-shaped container used in industrial processes to hold particulate matter, like dust, gravel, nuts, seeds, etc., and can then dispense them from the bottom.
A hopper can transfer 9000 items per hour, or 150 items per minute.
Gallery
Renders
Java Edition



			 Facing north



			 Facing east



			 Facing south



			 Facing west


Bedrock Edition



			 Facing north



			 Facing east



			 Facing south



			 Facing west


Screenshots



			In snapshot 13w01a, the hopper item uses a 'WIP' sprite, though the item still reads "Hopper".



			The 13w02a banner includes a minecart with TNT and a hopper.



			The hopper's crafting recipe as shown in the Block of the Month Minecraft.net article.


References

 The terms "locked" and "unlocked" were created by the community. "Enabled", on the other hand, is the name of the Java Edition blockstate property that defines whether the hopper should be operational or not.

 "Droppers Vs. Composters – The Effect Certain Blocks Have On Hopper Performance"  – ExperimentalIdea on YouTube, November 25, 2019

 https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/715523208530362389/890030941282631741/Redstone_MSPT_measure.xlsx

 MCPE-109449

 MC-279219 – Hoppers do not use minecraft:block.iron.* sounds despite being made of iron – resolved as "Invalid".

 MC-6737

 MC-5991

 https://bugs-legacy.mojang.com/browse/MC-106075?focusedId=327478&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-327478

 MC-109303

 MC-108127 – resolved as "fixed".

External links
"Block of the Month: Hopper"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, April 12, 2025.
Navigation