This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 

Host privileges are an option exclusive to the Legacy Console Edition, allowing the player to enable or disable the daylight cycle, weather cycle, keep inventory, mob spawning, and mob griefing. Enabling this option deactivates achievements or trophies permanently for this world.

Contents

1 World-creating options

1.1 Daylight Cycle
1.2 Weather Cycle
1.3 Keep Inventory
1.4 Mob Spawning
1.5 Mob Griefing

2 In-game options

2.1 Game modes
2.2 Difficulty
2.3 Weather
2.4 Time of day

2.4.1 Day
2.4.2 Night

2.5 Teleportation
2.6 Set World Spawn Point

3 Player Options

3.1 Disable Exhaustion
3.2 Invisibility
3.3 Flying
3.4 Set Player Spawn Point

4 History
5 Gallery
6 See also
7 Navigation

World-creating options
Daylight Cycle
Turns on or off the daylight cycle. Defaults to enabled.

Weather Cycle
If disabled, the weather does not change. If enabled, the weather changes to clear, rain, thunder, or snowy (in cold biomes). Defaults to enabled.

Keep Inventory
When enabled, your inventory stays when you die.

Mob Spawning
If enabled, mobs spawn naturally. If disabled, mobs don't spawn naturally (except for vindicators and evokers in woodland mansions, villagers in villages and elder guardians in ocean monuments). Mobs can still spawn through monster spawners and spawn eggs. Defaults to enabled.

Mob Griefing
If disabled, mobs don't change blocks. Creeper explosions don't destroy blocks, sheep don't turn grass blocks into dirt by eating it, snow golems don't cover the ground with snow, evokers aren't able to change colors of sheep, and endermen don't pick up blocks. Defaults to enabled.

In-game options
In game, the host and players set to "moderators" can change all options listed above and below.

Game modes
The player can change the default and their own gamemode.

Difficulty
The player can change the difficulty.

Weather
The player can change the weather into:

Rain (and snow; only in cold biomes)
Thunderstorm
Clear (removes weather)
Time of day
The player can change the time of day into day or night.

Day
Setting the time to 1000.

Night
Setting the time to 13000.

Teleportation
In multiplayer, the player can teleport to other players. Players can also teleport other players to themselves.

Set World Spawn Point
Pressing the button for world spawn point changes the player's default spawn point.

Player Options
The host player and players set as moderators can enable or disable these options in the player menu. All players set as moderators must be allowed by the host or other moderator players to enable or disable these options. Moderator players can change these options on other players (except the host).

Disable Exhaustion
If enabled, the hunger bar for this player never depletes unless naturally healing, and if the hunger bar is empty the player does not take starvation damage. Additionally, this allows the player to only need 1 () or more hunger points to naturally regenerate health, instead of needing 17 ( × 8.5) or more to naturally regenerate health. Can be enabled or disabled in all game modes except Creative.

Invisibility
If enabled, allows the player to become fully invisible and invincible. This includes damage from the void. Additionally, this causes the player to be unable to attack other players, player-created iron golems, snow golems, tamed wolves, parrots, horses, donkeys, mules, llamas, and skeleton horses.

Flying
If enabled, the player can enable or disable flying on all game modes except Creative.

Set Player Spawn Point
Sets the player's spawn point. If the spawn point set by this command gets obstructed, causes the player to spawn at the world spawn point.

History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU5CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added host privileges.
Added Player Versus Player.
Added Trust Players to stop players being able to mine without permission from the Host.
Added Fire Spread.
Added TNT Explodes.
Added in-game player options for the host - Can Build and Mine, Moderator, Kick Player, Can Fly, Disable Exhaustion, Invisible.TU141.04
Added new Host Options for flying, invisibility and invulnerability for remote players.
Added host option for teleporting players.TU19CU71.121.121.12
Added Daylight Cycle, Keep Inventory, Mob Spawning, Mob Griefing, Mob Loot, Tile Drops and Natural Regeneration host options.TU25CU141.171.171.17
Added host options for changing gamemode, difficulty, time of day, player spawn point and weather.
Added an option for weather cycle.?????
Setting the time to night now sets it to 14000 instead of 13000.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Changed the chat messages of the set day and set night options to say "Day" and "Night" rather than displaying numbers.
Gallery



			Unticked box of host privileges in world settings.



			Host options in the player list.png



			Host privileges in-game whilst with an unchecked box.



			Host privileges in-game whilst with a checked box.



			Another screenshot of host privileges in-game whilst with a checked box.


See also
Options
Player permissions and /ability (Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education's equivalent)
Legacy Console Edition exclusive features
Navigation