This feature is exclusive to Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Hour of Code: Generation AI

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Release date

[when?]

Tags

Artificial Intelligence
Careers
Computer Science

Website page

Hour of Code: Generation AI

{
    "title": "Hour of Code: Generation AI",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "<sup class=\" nowrap Inline-Template \" title=\"\">[<i>[https://minecraft.wiki/w/Talk:Hour_of_Code:_Generation_AI <span title=\"The point in time when this happened needs to be specified.\" >when?</span>]</i>]</sup>(link to Category:When article, displayed as Category:When)",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Artificial Intelligence\n*Careers\n*Computer Science",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/hour-of-code-generation-ai Hour of Code: Generation AI]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Hour of Code: Generation AI is a lesson in Minecraft Education and part of the Hour of Code series. The map teaches players the use of artificial intelligence and its six fundamental ethics.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Fairness and Inclusiveness
1.2 Reliability and Safety
1.3 Transparency and Accountability
1.4 Privacy and Security
1.5 Ending

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Gallery

4.1 Renders

5 Navigation

Summary
The player starts the lesson in a black room with a clickable map key art, which sends them to the tutorial area hosted by scientist-type NPCs. The area is a black void with a floor and walls made of stained glass and stone-type blocks. The player chooses whether they play on a keyboard or touch screen, then start the look tutorial, movements, placing bridge blocks, and breaking red stained glass walls. The last part of the tutorial involves using a relatively large Nether portal, which sends the player to a dingy bedroom with someone sleeping on their purple bed.
Clicking anywhere will move the perspective to the sleeping person, who is the player themselves. The player greets their fish Gil after having woken up, then gets ready to see their math scores at their computer. The room soon brightens, and they have to interact with the computer which, in a puff of black smoke, instantly transforms into a "mysterious AI" in the form of an agent. The AI laments that it has problems and both need to rush, to the confusion of the player who asks about its presense and the nature of AI. The mysterious AI explains that it stands for "artificial intelligence", before teleporting the player to another black, dark void.

Fairness and Inclusiveness
On top of a pillar made of white concrete powder, wool, and concrete, the AI explains artificial intelligence, finishing its talk by affirming that the player actually programmed information into it, but the player is still puzzled. The void soon brightens, revealing a red pillar on the other side and a floor made of white stained glass, with a red AI guide awaiting on top. The mysterious AI explains that AI is missing the Principles of Responsible AI, which it needs to function properly. To help the player on their quest, the AI shows that there are four AI guides who will help the player by traveling through time and learning the principles. To help them get to the pillar, the hotbar gets filled with infinite bridge blocks that the player should use to build a bridge. Upon meeting the AI guide, the latter, which turns out to be named Fairness and Inclusiveness, laments that it is missing its namesake and must "travel back to [its] humble beginnings and see what happened". Soon, the concrete of the pillar shatters and the player falls through a gray then colorful hole which darkens into black.
The player ends up in their school luchroom with terracotta walls, a floor made of oak planks, and a checkerboard-style white and orange carpet. The AI lunch dispenser serves the meals to a line of four students via its scanner. According to the guide, the machine helps the cooks make better food. However, it fails to detect the third student, Miguel, because of his short height caused by his wheelchair, which did not reach the range of the scanner. Because of this, the guide insists the machine treat every student fairly no matter their height, and offers the player to choose from MakeCode blocks or Python as a coding language. To solve the issue, the students are teleported to the starting point and the player must fix the code so the scanner moves in order to detect every single student, including Miguel. This done, the guide informs that fairness and inclusiveness have been added to the mysterious AI. The room soon darkens before the player teleports to the pillar.

Reliability and Safety
The mysterious AI appears in front of the player where a yellow pillar is at sight. It informs them that it has learned fairness and inclusiveness and is now capable of building a bridge using code. A button in the form of a block of redstone on an andesite wall can be used to reset the code. Upon running the code, the player meets the yellow AI guide Reliability and Safety, who does not seem to know its namesake. It tells the player to follow it provided they stay far from it, before they fall through the warp hole.
The hole leads to the garden in the player's house with flowering azalea as a hedge, a fence made of spruce planks, and a brick terrace. The grass is too tall in the garden, and the guide reminds the player that they created an AI known as the Smart Mower, which was a great pride for them. However, upon turning it on, it cuts both the grass and the lawnsprinklers, causing them to malfunction. To fix this, the player has to code a solution so the mower lifts up whenever it detects a lawnsprinkler. Once done, the guide informs that reliability and safety has been added to the mysterious AI before darkening the player's sight and teleporting them back to the yellow pillar.

Transparency and Accountability
The mysterious AI appears before the player, telling them that it has now learned reliability and safety. With its abilities improved, it also informs the player of the coding concept of loops to build the bridge toward a green pillar. Once there, the AI guide Transparency and Accountability tells the player that it is supposed to take them on a trip but is also overly confident due to the lack of its namesake. It also warns the player about its unpredictable thoughts. To teach them how it ended up in this state, the guide breaks the pillar, sending them to the warp hole.
The player finds themselves in their town where piles of trash are so common that a white car slips on its track and stops as a robotic bird accidentally releases a banana peel on it. The guide informs the player that, as part of Project Preen, they sent AI Trash Collectors, bird-shaped robots that gather trash to the dumpster. However, the birds are malfunctioning and the player must investigate the birds' control box, where some parts of the code are encrypted by 0s and 1s. The guide informs the player that this is a black box code, causing it to be hidden from view.
To fix this, it tasks the player to follow three birds and scan them. With each scan, the encryption deciphers to the words trash, dumpster, and release. Upon deciphering all encryptions, the guide explains accountability and tasks the player to visit the dumpster. Having collected the dumpster's location data, the guide tasks the player to code a solution to fix the birds' issue. With the code fixed, the guide informs the player that transparency and accountability has been added to the mysterious AI, while the birds gather trash to clean the town. The player is then teleported back to the pillar.

Privacy and Security
The mysterious AI tells the player that it is "accountable with being transparent with [them]" after learning the new principles, before pointing to a cyan pillar. With its capacities improved, the AI prompts the player options to build the bridge: its shape, material, and size. The blue AI guide on the pillar, Privacy and Security, feels startled by the player's presence due to their overvigilence caused by the lack of security. So the player teaches it the principle, the guide drops the player into the warp hole, hoping for them to find a way to make it secure.
Inside a small house, the owner serves the rest of the family a cooked chicken, before someone knocks at the door. Realizing it was a door-to-door salesman selling a bunch of books, the owner declines the offer and shuts the door annoyed. The following night, the owner serves a steak and hears another knock at their door, this time from a salesman selling a vacuum cleaner, much to the owner's dismay.
In the office of AI Tech Locks where the player works, the guide praises their efforts to develop "the most secure smart locks on the market!" and the player receives a complaint from the owner about annoying salesmen and how they knew the lock password. Next to the office door is an AI lock where the access report is public, causing everyone to have access to lock passwords. To fix this, the player has to use the Co-Crafter AI Assistant in their computer to fix a bug related to admin permission issues. After scanning the issue, the assistant informs the player that the issue is related to the access report code, and fixing it can make the code restricted to admins.
After fixing the code, the lock prevents the player from viewing the access report. The guide then congratulates the player for having fixed the issue and adds privacy and security to the mysterious AI, before darkening the player's sight and teleporting them to the customer's house. There, the family worries about the next salesman during dinnertime, but feels relieved upon hearing no knock at the door. The player is then teleported back to the pillar.

Ending
The mysterious AI in front of the player feels complete, so much it renames itself to responsible AI. It transforms into a scooter, and tells the player to ride it. The scooter lifts up, produces teleportation particles, and travels at high speed until it stops onto a pink pillar. After bidding the AI goodbye, the player falls through the pillar in a warp hole.
The hole leads to a black void with a white tinted glass floor. The responsible AI challenges the player on applying their knowledge for the next puzzle, before spawning the four AI guides beneath a black tinted glass, hand-shaped floor. The floor splits into four paths, each representing the meaning of one of the guides' signature principle. The player must code in order to lead each guide to the end of its respective path.
Once solved, the background shows five pillars towering over the player: four representing the AI guides and a pink one. Respectively colored lightning strikes the pillars, and after receiving thanks from the responsible AI, the player gets lifted up and teleported to an ethereal, white void. The responsible AI, now with a chest light and limbs cycling with all colors, rewards the player with a world entirely of their choice in which they will spend the rest of the lesson.

Quotes



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Videos
Main article: Hour of Code: Generation AI - Official Minecraft Trailer





Gallery



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Renders



			Fairness and Inclusiveness



			Reliability and Safety



			Transparency and Accountability



			Privacy and Security


Navigation