This feature is exclusive to Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Release date

[when?]

Website page

Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On

{
    "title": "Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "<sup class=\" nowrap Inline-Template \" title=\"\">[<i>[https://minecraft.wiki/w/Talk:Hour_of_Code:_The_Show_Must_Go_On <span title=\"The point in time when this happened needs to be specified.\" >when?</span>]</i>]</sup>(link to Category:When article, displayed as Category:When)",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/hour-of-code-the-show-must-go-on Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On is a lesson in Minecraft Education and part of the Hour of Code series. The lesson is set on a stage where a show gets interrupted due to the agent's disappearance.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Sound Stage
1.2 Prop Department
1.3 Dance Studio
1.4 Wardrobe
1.5 Gags
1.6 Ending

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 In other media

6 Navigation

Summary
The player starts the lesson in a dark void, with a window prompting them to begin. They find themselves at the gate of a stage where the Minecraft Stage Show Extravaganza takes place. The stage's usher greets them and shows them their seat. At the stageroom, various mobs, passive and hostile, act as the audience waiting for the show to start. Upon seating, the player can choose their playing devise, after which the lights dim and the stage lights up, but the show gets interrupted by an explosion behind the curtains. The room lights back up, and the stage manager at the stage laments about technical issues, asking for a volunteer with coding skills to help them. In order to agree to volunteer, the player chooses their coding language between blocks or Python and uses the appropriate hand-raising code for the task. With the task complete, the manager asks the player to follow the usher to backstage, which starts a movement tutorial. To reach the end of the path, they have to avoid velvet rope obstacles and then jump on the boxes to reach the door. There, the manager (whose name is revealed to be Val) laments that they have "a BIG problem!" involving the disappearance of The Agent, the star of the show who fled somewhere backstage.

Sound Stage
The player is led backstage where, upstairs, the yellow gate of the sound stage opens. The manager introduces the player to the stage where the music is written and claims to have lately seen the Agent there, telling them to ask music director Ghast Lee Nethers for any clues. Inside, the walls are mostly red and the floor is made up of spruce planks. Eight baby ghasts work on the music on their seats while Ghast Lee Nethers stands on a music platform, with a gate to the next room on the right. Ghast Lee laments that the door is locked, beyond which is the sound room where the Agent fled to. To open the door, the player must play the guitar, the xylophone, and the drum using code by inputting the right sequence of the notes instrument by instrument. With each instrument played, the gate moves a little, and playing all instruments with their respective sequences opens the gate. At the sound room, the player finds the Agent, who is suffering from stage fright and worrying about their singing. To help them, the player can edit the previous music code by adding more instruments of their choice. Hearing the song, the Agent appreciates it but, still overcome by stage fright, flees backstage, slamming the door open. There, the player can search for the gates leading to any of the three remaining activities, as well as a staircase leading to the upper floor.

Prop Department
The prop department is located behind the pink gate upstairs at backstage. The entire room is white, except the green wall where the That's a Wrap gag takes place. The player meets Zom B. Walker, the zombie set designer who points to the exit door at the other side of the room where the Agent fled. To open it, the player has to code the right sequence of three scenes according to the pattern on the script placed on a lectern, including the biome, time of day, and weather. Once the sequence is complete, lightning harmlessly strikes Zom, then the door to open it. Behind the door, the player can find the Agent, who still worries about getting unfit with the background. The player can help them by adding more settings to the background at the next room. If the player did not choose the prop department as their last activity, the agent runs away backstage out of fear.

Dance Studio
The dance studio has a green gate and is located to the left of backstage downstairs. The floor of the studio is made up of birch planks and the walls are mostly white except for the mirrored wall. The choreographer Ann DerMann claims to have seen the Agent dash across the room where the exit is locked as she performs her new dance routine. The player has to help her by setting the four armor stands on a wall to the correct dance move (dolphin disco, golem gallop, mushroom march, or wither wave) according to the poster above each. After completing each dance for the respective armor stand, the door opens to the next room. There, the Agent is still stage-frightened, doubting their dance skills will make the audience laugh at them. To help them, the player can add any dance move (including unique ones) to the previous code, which helps the Agent regain courage. If this activity was not chosen last, the Agent flees the room out of fear, slamming the exit door open.

Wardrobe
The wardrobe is a small room with a blue gate directly opposite of the gag posters. There, the player accidentally startles Swampy Witchez, who aggressively orders them to get the nine items they dropped. They then point at the exit door, which is locked by three sliding locks: gold, copper, and diamond. In order to unlock the door, the player has to code in the costume combination with its respective number from top to bottom, corresponding to the head, body, and legs. Only the gold lock reveals the numbers, and subsequent openings reveal more numbers. After opening the door, the corridor leads downstairs to a secondary wardrobe with a bathroom to the left of the staircase. The Agent standing in the wardrobe still doubts about their clothing, and the player can help them by adding more costume combinations. If this activity was not the last chosen, the Agent runs away out of fear, slamming the door open.

Gags
Scattered across backstage are 12 optional "gags" that play when interacted with. Playing each three gags unlocks a new backup dancer for the Agent to perform with during the final show. The player can keep track of gags found by looking at their posters left to the main backstage door.

Gag

Location

Description

Minecraft the Moo-sical

Backstage next to the stairs beside the sound stage

Three baby zombies pull up the rope to slam down a cow dressed like a fairy.

Somewhere Under the Rainbow

Next to the lockers after exiting the sound room

A sheep shears a red-colored one, only for its wool to grow back green, blue, and then red again.

Not on my Watch

Between two gates at the upper floor

A guardian dressed as security wakes up as a baby villager passes by, before falling back asleep.

Phantom Fan

On the left stage box at the upper floor

A phantom emerges from the stage box and swoops down above the audience, startling them.

Quiet on the Set

At the back of the sound stage

A warden rises at the sound of a trumpeteer and casts a sonic boom at them, causing them to run away before burrowing back.

End on a High Note

Behind the left white stained glass wall at the sound room

A creeper with a yellow wig primes as it sings on a microphone before exploding, leaving behind its own wig.

Danse Macabre

At the dance studio, on the opposite side of the armor stands beyond a barrier.

A wither skeleton and a normal one dance ballet together, until the former accidentally sends the latter's skull flying through the air.

Just Wingin' It

Directly in front of the gate of the dance studio's second room.

Five parrots of all variants sing and dance under a disco ball.

Stealing the Spotlight

Directly at the exit of the prop department

An iron golem squeezes a squid and uses it as a spotlight, turning it into a glow squid.

That's a Wrap

At the green wall on the right of the prop department

A salmon standing on its tail fin plays as a worker in a desert-themed setting.

Cold Open

In the farthest block of the bathroom

A strider takes a bath in cold water before shifting it to lava and back to water.

Nothing Up My Sleeve

At the far left corner of the secondary wardrobe

An evoker performs a magic trick through its top hat, creating a red parrot, a cold frog, and a white rabbit with its tongue out in the process.

Ending
After completing all four activities, the stage manager announces the start of the show, teleporting the player to their seat. The show plays with the Agent performing the dances the player taught and swapping between costumes from their choice. The music and background are also affected by the player's gameplay during their respective activities. If a specific number of gags have been triggered, Ghast Lee Nethers, Zom B. Walker, Ann DerMan, and/or Swampy Witchez join the dance show as "backup dancers". After the show ends, the audience throw roses at the agent and backup dancers if any, teleporting the player backstage. They then can modify the music, background, dance moves, and/or costume cycle at the respective room, and talk to the stage manager to start a new show with the new changes at any time.

Quotes
“Lights, camera, code! Welcome to the Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On, where your creativity and coding skills take center stage! The show's star is missing, and the spotlight is on you! Compose a song, choreograph a dance, design a costume and build the scene for the Agent! Code your way through fun challenges, unlock surprises, and craft the most spectacular show ever.„ — Description in the Library
“While your  [sic] looking around backstage, you might see some wacky 'behind the scenes' antics going on. Here's where you can keep track of what you've found and what you still need to find. You can also interact with any poster you've found to see it again.„ — The stage manager introducing the player to gags
“Ladies and Gentle Mobs, I proudly present to you the star of our show... The Commander of Code! The Scripting Sensation! The Programming Pro! Please put your hands together for the one, the only, MINECRAFT AGENT!„ — The stage manager presenting the Agent to the audience
Videos
Main article: Hour of Code: The Show Must Go On - Official Minecraft Trailer





Trivia
The map uses simplistic textures reminiscent of the Plastic Texture Pack with a few differences.
Gallery
In other media



			The creeper singer in the End on a High Note gag


Navigation