This feature is exclusive to Minecraft Education. 

Hour of Code: TimeCraft

Map maker(s)

Mojang Studios

Price

Free

Release date

[when?]

Tags

Communication
Creativity
Critical thinking

Website page

Hour of Code: TimeCraft

Article

"Save the future through TimeCraft"     – Minecraft.net.

{
    "title": "Hour of Code: TimeCraft",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "<sup class=\" nowrap Inline-Template \" title=\"\">[<i>[https://minecraft.wiki/w/Talk:Hour_of_Code:_TimeCraft <span title=\"The point in time when this happened needs to be specified.\" >when?</span>]</i>]</sup>(link to Category:When article, displayed as Category:When)",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n*Communication\n*Creativity\n*Critical thinking",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/hour-of-code-2021-timecraft Hour of Code: TimeCraft]",
            "label": "Website page"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/save-future-through-timecraft \"Save the future through TimeCraft\"]     – (link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net).",
            "label": "Article"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Hour of Code: TimeCraft is a lesson in Minecraft Education and part of the Hour of Code series. In this map, the player has to fix various "time splits" that occured in the past and identify the Time Culprit behind them.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Big Band Jazz
1.2 Other time splits
1.3 Endings

1.3.1 Time Wizard
1.3.2 Time Detective
1.3.3 Time Trainee

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 Gallery

4.1 Renders

5 Navigation

Summary
The player starts the lesson in a black void on a 9×9 quartz floor in front of the key art of the lesson. Pressing the button on the block of gold starts the lesson temporarily blinded. The player's vision clears, their blindness replaced with Invisibility in a space-like environment made of stained glass where Ephemera One, the spaceship of the Institute for Major Time Errors, assembles. They are teleported abroad with the effect expiring, undergoing a tutorial that leads them deeper inside the institute and into the Control Center. There, TARRA who runs the center tasks the player to fix the errors that happened in time itself after one of the five time agents (the "time culprit") tampered with historic events. They invite them to choose a time agent after choosing the programming language (blocks or Python). Afterward, five pods emerge from the floor, each housing its respectively colored agent: from left to right, Rascal in the red pillar, Yeti in the yellow one, Gremlin in the green one, Banshee in the blue one, and Pixie in the purple one. Interacting with any button will choose the time agent to fix the mishap, before the pods disappear beneath iron trapdoors. TARRA then provides the player with a TALK device for assistance and leads them to the Time Agent Testing Area where the player has to move their time agent three blocks forward.

Big Band Jazz
After finishing the task, the player can choose the first mission appearing on the time computer showing a kazoo. To travel to the time split, TARRA warns that the Time Pod only supports three travels. In order to access the Pod, the player has to press the brief button and then the start button to travel to the 1920s where a jazz musician's trumpet got swapped for a kazoo. To help him, they have to lead their time agent through a maze to retrieve the musician's trumpet. Afterward, TARRA scans the place and detects a button in the hallway. Pressing it reveals a secret room with artworks of two random time agents: the time culprit and a random innocent agent. The player can then use their TALK device to return to present day.

Other time splits
After fixing the Big Band Jazz time split, the player can use their TALK device to travel back to the center and choose any of the nine remaining time splits to fix, at the maximum of two. Any mission ends with a button that appears in a specific location, opening a secret room that houses two artworks of time agents, always including the time culprit. The following is the list of time splits on the timeline computer from left to right:

The Great Pyramids of Giza: The architect of the pyramids discovers that their cube-shaped tomb for King Khufu is at risk of collapsing and its shape must be changed to pyramid. The player can help them by making the time agent complete the pyramid design.
Moon Mission: The time agent must deliver the calculations to the astronauts to land safely on the Moon.
The Great Wall of China: The building of the Great Wall of China gets interrupted after pandas ate away the scaffolding. The player has to code a solution to plant bamboo shoots for the pandas.
The Mona Lisa: After the time culprit destroyed the fountain, Mona Lisa now bears a sad face. To cheer her up, the time agent must fix the fountain.
First Flights: The time culprit's disruption for the airplane runway caused the world to stick to hot air balloons unless the time agent fixes the holes.
First Computer Scientist: The time culprit's disruption for code caused the first computer to be unable to play a song, which the player has to fix.
Human's Best Friend: Because of the time culprit, human's best friend is a bear. The player can fix this by bringing a wolf to humans to befriend it.
Palaeontology Puzzle: The time culprit's theft for fossils caused the brachiosaurus to have a short neck, which the player can fix by inserting bone blocks back.
Elements of Discovery: A scientist is missing some elements that the time culprit hid from them, forcing the player to find them in order to create a discovery.
Endings
After fixing three time splits (including Big Band Jazz), the player ends the lesson in various ways depending on whether they accused the right agent to be the time culprit. In all cases, they can replay the lesson with their TALK device.

Time Wizard
TARRA tasks the player of bringing their time agent to their pod. TARRA then lowers all the pods containing the agents except for the one with the time culprit. They discover that the culprit had "Villain Mode" on, turning it off to solve the issue, and the player is granted the "Time Wizard" rank.

Time Detective
TARRA brings all time agents to their pods, but they break out after the time culprit reveals themselves and leads all the agents to the time pod to escape. The player is granted the "Time Detective" rank.

Time Trainee
TARRA laments that timelines broke, before the time culprit shows up with the other four time agents. They declare history as worth taking over before all the agents vanish into purple particles. The player is granted the "Time Trainee" rank.

Quotes
“Travel through time and space and explore the concept of building a better future through code. Experience a choose your own adventure game, exploring diverse key moments in human history. Using your coding super powers, save the future by solving mysterious incongruities in the past, collecting clues and connecting patterns to identify the mischievous time culprit.„ — Description in the Library
“Great! You're here! Things seem to be going wrong in time, and we need your computer science skills! I'm TARRA, and I operate the Control Center here at the Institute for Major Time Errors.Choose a Time Agent to help you on your missions.„ — TARRA welcoming the player
“Great work! We are finished with the Time Agents now... except you, [time culprit]! We need to talk!Oh! It appears this Agent was switched to "Villain Mode"! *click*. There we go! Now this Time Agent won't be causing any more issues!„ — TARRA in the "Time Wizard" ending
“TARRA: Fastastic work! You've repaired the timeline, but just barely!Now that we have this situation under control, meet me at the center of the Control Room to store your Time Agent back in their pod.In front of you will be the Time Agent storage pods. Use your TALK device to return your Agent to their pod!Great work! Now to store everyone except you, [time culprit]! You stay right there until we can check you out!Time culprit: *clap clap* You figured it out... I'm the Culprit! But you're too late! You might've stopped me this time, but I'll be back!TARRA: I'm not sure where the Culprit has gone, but we'll find them... it's just a matter of TIME... You can go back and try again!„ — TARRA and the time culprit in the "Time Detective" ending
“TARRA: Oh no! All of time is broken! There is nothing left! Not even Tuesday!!Time culprit: Mwahahaha! History is now mine for the taking!TARRA: The timeline has collapsed! You must go back in time to when you first got here and try again to catch the Culprit! Time is counting on you!„ — TARRA in the "Time Trainee" ending
Videos
Main article: 2021 Hour of Code: TimeCraft





Gallery



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

Renders



			Rascal



			Yeti



			Gremlin



			Banshee



			Pixie


Navigation