This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 

Huggy & Friends Skin Pack

Creator

Spark Universe

Skins

21

Price

 660 Minecoins

Release date

February 10, 2026

Website page

Huggy & Friends Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Huggy & Friends Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Spark Universe article, displayed as Spark Universe)",
            "label": "Creator"
        },
        {
            "field": "21",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Ore UI - \"Icon Minecoin\".png article, displayed as 22px|link=Minecoin|class=pixel-image) 660 Minecoins",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "February 10, 2026",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp/spark-universe/huggy--friends-skin-pack/f37489e5-0266-41ef-8350-ebc16d1613e5 Huggy & Friends Skin Pack in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Key art
Huggy & Friends Skin Pack is a skin pack developed by Spark Universe, themed after the Poppy Playtime horror video game and merchandise franchise.

Contents

1 Skins
2 Quotes
3 History
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork

6 References
7 External links
8 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Huggy Wuggy



Experiment #1170, the primary mascot of the Poppy Playtime franchise and Chapter 1 "A Tight Squeeze", a living toy, main antagonist of "A Tight Squeeze" and a playable monster in Project: Playtime. Portrayed in cartoon cutouts by Zachary Preciado ("A Tight Squeeze" and "Fly in a Web") and Micah Preciado ("Deep Sleep" and "Safe Haven").

Kissy Missy



Experiment #1772, a living toy and a companion in Poppy Playtime. Also appears in Project: Playtime as a skin for Huggy Wuggy. The cartoon cut-outs of the toy character are portrayed by Emily Frongillo.

Doey



Experiment #1322, real names Jack Ayers, Kevin Barnes and Matthew Hallard, a major character in Chapter 4 "Safe Haven" and a living dough figure. Portrayed by Michael Kovach.

Nightmare Catnap



Catnap as he appears to the player character under hallucinogenic influence

Lily Lovebraids



Experiment #1468: "Lily Lovebraid", real name Grace "Gracie" Green, was a major antagonist in Chapter 5 "Broken Things". Lead councillor of the Wellness & Integration brainwashing program turned into a living toy by the other experiments as revenge after the Hour of Joy in 1995, in the image of the Lily Lovebraids fashion doll. Both her human self (live action footage) and the toy (voice) portrayed by Nicole Tompkins.

Angry Huggy Wuggy



#1170 as he appears whilst hostile.

Angry Kissy Missy



#1172 as she appears when hostile.

Monster DogDay



"DogDay", experiment number and real name unknown, was a living toy created under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative in the image of the DogDay plush from the 1989 Smiling Critters toyline. Deemed a heretic by #1188 after he (alongside all the other Smiling Critter Bigger Bodies) turned against the Prototype, he was locked in the Playhouse prison to be eaten alive by the smaller toys from the cult of the Prototype, eventually becoming the last surviving Smiling Critter Bigger Body. Appeared as an enemy in Chapter 3 "Deep Sleep", where the smaller cultist critters ate him from the inside and chased the player whilst wearing his remains. Portrayed by Baldwin Williams, Junior.

Monster CatNap



Experiment #1188: "CatNap", real name Theodore "Theo" Grambell, was the mascot and main antagonist of Chapter 3 "Deep Sleep". A living toy created in 1990 under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative out of an orphan boy, who had suffered an unrelated severe injury, in the image of the CatNap plush from the 1989 Smiling Critters toyline, initially for the purpose of putting orphans at the Playcare orphanage to sleep with Aeternum Somnium. After the Hour of Joy Grambell became the head of the Proptotype's cult, treating Playcare as his church. Portrayed by an unknown actor.

Poppy



Experiment #1007: "Poppy Playtime", real name Poppy Ludwig, is the eponymous deuteragonist of Poppy Playtime. A living toy created by Elliott Ludwig to revive his dead daughter, in the image of the 1950 Poppy Playtime doll, itself based on Poppy Ludwig and the namesake of the Playtime Company. Portrayed by Nola Klop.

Daddy Long Legs



Experiment #1223: "Daddy Long Legs" is a minor experiment mentioned in the "Poppy Playtime: Escape Trials" Fortnite map. A living toy created in 1991 under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative in a failed attempt at calming #1222's aggression towards the Playtime Company staff. A companion toy for Mommy Long Legs based on this experiment was later released in 1992 as Mommy's husband. Appeared in Project: Playtime as a skin for Mommy Long Legs. Portrayed by Robin Nelson in MOB's Fazbear & Friends YouTube web-series.

Mommy Long Legs



Experiment #1222: "Mommy Long Legs", real name Marie Payne, was the mascot and main antagonist of Chapter 2 "Fly in a Web". A living toy created in 1991 under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative out of an orphan girl, in the image of the (then in-development) Mommy Long Legs toy, initially for the purpose of testing the newly invented Elastic Plastic. Due to her protectiveness of the other experiments she was later repurposed as the ward of the Game Station observational site. She was the primary antagonist during the story of "Fly in a Web" and a playable monster in Project: Playtime. Portrayed by Elsie Lovelock.

DogDay



One of the many living toys made in the image of the DogDay plush from the 1989 Smiling Critters toyline.

CatNap



One of the many living toys made in the image of the CatNap plush from the 1989 Smiling Critters toyline. Cartoon character portrayed by Elijah Delaney.

Bobby Bearhug



One of the many living toys made in the image of the Bobby BearHug plush from the 1989 Smiling Critters toyline. Cartoon character portrayed by Avalon Delaney. Presumably included due to Experiment #1186: "Bobby BearHug" being the only Smiling Critter Bigger Body other than the main two to ever be fully shown within the franchise, albeit only as a sketch in Dr Preston Willard's orientation notebook.

Silly Willy



Usually called Killy Willly, it was originally a fan-character featured in the GameToons animated parodies of Poppy Playtime. He appeared in Project: Playtime as a skin for Huggy Wuggy and some concept art for "Safe Haven".

Pugapiller



Experiment #1174: "PJ Pug-a-Piller", real name unknown, was living toy created in 1990 under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative in the image of the PJ Pug-a-Piller toy from the Swap-imals toyline, for the purpose of acting as a mobile obstacle in the Statues game at the Game Station observational site. Secondary antagonist in Chapter 2 "Fly in a Web". Cartoon character portrayed by Micah Preciado.

Yarnaby



Experiment #1166: "Yarnaby", real name Quinn Navidson, was living toy created in 1990 under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative out of an orphan boy, in the image of the Yarnaby plush. After the procedure #1166 lost all of his human cognitive ability, reverting to an animal-like state, being often compared to a dog. A major antagonist in Chapter 4 "Safe Haven". Cartoon character portrayed by Ben Rooker.

Doctor



Experiment 1354: "The Doctor", real name Dr Harley Sawyer, remotely controlling one of many robot bodies. Main antagonist of Chapter 4 "Safe Haven". The scientist responsible for most of the living toy experiments, later betrayed by the company and his colleagues due to the Theatre Incident and turned into a cyborg forced to answer other scientists questions. During the Hour of Joy he convinced the warden to give him access to the Omni-Hand, letting him take control of the entire facility's systems. Portrayed by Baldwin Williams, Junior.

Boxy Boo



Experiment #1160: "Boxy Boo", real name unknown, was a playable monster in Project: Playtime. The first living toy created under Dr Harley Sawyer's Bigger Bodies Initiative, in 1990, in the image of the Boxy Boo jack-in-a-box toy, for the purpose of eating people that the company wanted to get rid of. It cameoed in the Hour of Joy VHS tape and on the mural of Safe Haven.

Player Avatar



Yellow figure from the Grab Pack instructional videos used to represent the protagonist in marketing material and merchandise. It is also used as the player model for Resource Extraction Specialists in PROJECT: PLAYTIME.

Quotes
“Itʼs playtime! Become one of the iconic toys from Poppyʼs world. Choose from over 20 unique 3D skins and surprise your friends. Play as familiar characters like Huggy Wuggy, Kissy Missy, CatNap, Doey, Mommy Long Legs, Poppy, and
many more...Official collaboration with Mob Entertainment.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
History
Bedrock EditionFebruary 10, 2026
The Huggy & Friends Skin Pack is added to the Marketplace.
Trivia
Prior to the release of the skin pack, an add-on was made for the same property, also released by Spark Universe. However, it is not considered official to the Minecraft franchise.
In a promotional image for the skin pack, Doey has a noticeably different texture, with the clay hands resembling claws and a tentacle. Boxy Boo's texture also appears reversed in the image.
Gallery
Official artwork






















References

 "We have more experiments taking over Minecraft now 👀"  – @mobgamesstudios  on X (formerly Twitter), February 19, 2026

 "The whole crew 🤝"  – @SparkUniverse  on X (formerly Twitter), February 22, 2026

External links
"Poppy Playtime x Spark Universe"     – Poppy Playtime Wiki.
Navigation