This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: from Greek Mythology Mash-up

Hydra

Status

Deceased







Residence

Sunken Ruins




Enemies

Humans

First appearance

Greek Mythology Mash-up

Latest appearance

The Twist of the Plot

{
    "title": "Hydra",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Deceased",
            "label": "Status"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Sunken Ruins article, displayed as Sunken Ruins)",
            "label": "Residence"
        },
        {
            "field": "Humans",
            "label": "Enemies"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Greek Mythology Mash-up article, displayed as Greek Mythology Mash-up)",
            "label": "First appearance"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to The Twist of the Plot article, displayed as The Twist of the Plot)''",
            "label": "Latest appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "MCMS Hydra.jpg"
    ]
}

The Hydra is a three-headed lizard-like mythological creature that appeared in Minecraft Mini-Series as minor antagonist in The Twist of the Plot.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Biography
3 Powers and abilities
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 Navigation

Appearance
The Hydra looks like a lizard, but unlike lizards it has two legs and three heads located on long necks. Its belly, teeth and parts of its neck are colored yellow, and the rest of its body is green, and its pupils are red.

Biography
After Durango, Zed, Quinn and CommuniKate dug into the cave with the chest, the Hydra appeared and began to attack the heroes. The heroes decided to split up, and Quinn began to distract the Hydra, and the latter ran after her, and then the Hydra began to charge a strong attack, but Durango and CommuniKate jumped on her back and hit the Hydra in the neck, and then when shot, the Hydra exploded from inside.

Powers and abilities
As an amphibious creature, the Hydra can live both on land and underwater without drowning or dehydrating, as evidenced by it emerging from its underground lake. It can charge and shoot explosive fireballs from its mouths, but all of its three heads face one direction while targeting. It also boasts enough strength to knock any mob far away with its tail.

Trivia
The Hydra is called the Lernaean Hydra in Greek Mythology in reference to its lair being the lake of Lerna in the Argolid.
Gallery



			The original mini figure of the Hydra.



			The original skin of the Hydra.


Navigation