This article is about the in-game feature.   For other uses, see Narrator (disambiguation).

The different narrator settings.
The narrator‌[JE  only] or text to speech‌[BE  only] is a text-to-speech engine that automatically reads chat messages and other text elements in the user interface, such as titles and selected buttons.

Contents

1 Usage
2 History

2.1 Java Edition
2.2 Bedrock Edition

3 Issues
4 References
5 Navigation

Usage
It can be toggled on in the accessibility settings or by pressing ⎈ Control + B (or ⌘ Command + B on Mac). The narrator can be toggled between the following settings:

Off: The narrator is inactive.
All: The narrator reads chat and system messages.
Chat: The narrator reads only messages produced by players.
System: The narrator reads only messages produced by the system (UI text, command outputs, notifications, etc.).
The keyboard shortcut for toggling the narrator can be disabled in the accessibility settings.
The language of the narrator is defined in host system and cannot be changed from within the game (although it can be forced in Windows by editing the Windows Registry).

History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1217w13a
Added the narrator. It can be toggled on and off with ⎈ Control + B or ⌘ Command + B on Mac.17w15a
Added the option to toggle narrator between: "off", "chat & system", "chat only", and "system messages only".

Added a toast notification for toggling the narrator.17w18b
Made the narrator work on nearly all systems (Linux requires Flite for it to work).1.1419w07a
The narrator now reads hovered over buttons out loud.1.1519w46b
The narrator now reads command suggestions when on "All" or "System".1.1720w46a
Added strings, "Mode", "Type", "Triggering", and "Track output" in the command block UI, for the narrator to read.1.20.223w33a
Added "Narrator Hotkey" option to accessibility settings. It allows the narrator to be toggled with ⎈ Control + B.​[more information needed]1.21.525w02a
The volume of the narrator is now affected by the game's configured volume in the 'Voice' category.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.21.100Preview 1.21.100.23
Text to Speech support has been added to all dressing room pages.
Issues
Issues relating to "Narrator" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

References

 MC-118526 – Can't change language of narrator; uses system language instead of game language – resolved as "Works As Intended".

Navigation