This page only covers Netflix's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Netflix, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.



This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Netflix

Type

Video on-demand streaming service

Founder(s)

Marc Randolph
Reed Hastings

Founded

August 29, 1997; 27 years ago (as a DVD e-commerce)
January 16, 2007; 18 years ago (as a streaming service)

Headquarters

Los Gatos, California

Links

Website

{
    "title": "Netflix",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* Video on-demand streaming service",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Marc Randolph article, displayed as Marc Randolph)\n* (link to wikipedia:Reed Hastings article, displayed as Reed Hastings)",
            "label": "Founder(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* August 29, 1997; 27 years ago (as a DVD e-commerce)\n* January 16, 2007; 18 years ago (as a streaming service)",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Los Gatos, California article, displayed as Los Gatos, California)",
            "label": "Headquarters"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://www.netflix.com/gb/ Website]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Netflix.svg",
        "Netflix 2015 logo.svg"
    ]
}

Netflix is an American streaming service, enabling immediate access to a wide library of films and TV shows under a subscription.

Contents

1 Releases

1.1 Minecraft: Story Mode
1.2 Animated series

2 Collaborations

2.1 Stranger Things Skin Pack

3 Trivia
4 References
5 Navigation

Releases
Minecraft: Story Mode
Main article: Minecraft: Story Mode
Minecraft: Story Mode was an episodic point-and-click narrative-driven adventure game created in collaboration with Telltale Games. In June 2018, Netflix and Telltale Games signed a partnership agreement and the first season of the game was expected to be released on Netflix on November 7, 2018.
It was later delayed for unknown reasons, and the first three episodes of the first season were released on Netflix on November 27, 2018, with the fourth and fifth episodes following on December 5.
Neither episodes six through eight of the first season, nor any of the episodes from the second season, were released on Netflix. On December 5, 2022, Minecraft: Story Mode was removed from Netflix, making it unplayable.
The Netflix release of the game had alternate appearances for the main character, Jesse, and was originally going to have unique plotlines that the base game did not.

Animated series
Main article: Untitled Minecraft animated series
An animated series based off Minecraft was announced on May 30, 2024 at the end of the 15 Days of Minecraft event. It will be animated by WildBrain Studios and is planned to be released on Netflix on an unspecified date.
According to Netflix, the series “will tell an original story with new characters and reflect the world of Minecraft in a new light”. It is being written by A.C. Bradley and produced by Torfi Frans Ólafsson.

Collaborations
Stranger Things Skin Pack
Main article: Stranger Things Skin Pack
As a promotion for the Netflix original series Stranger Things' second season, a skin pack based off the show was released on October 27, 2017 for Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition, as well as September 19, 2018 for New Nintendo 3DS Edition. It was later delisted on an unknown date.

Trivia
Stranger Things was cited as an inspiration for the novel Minecraft: Mob Squad, alongside similar properties such as The Goonies.
References

 "Netflix to bring Minecraft: Story Mode to service - but not traditional games"     by Nick Pino  – Tech Radar, June 13, 2018.

 "So, in honor of the Netflix edition of Minecraft: Story Mode officially leaving the service, I wanted to share this screenshot that someone smuggled out from behind the scenes while the team was making it..."  – Stirpicus, November 7, 2022, Tumblr

 "Netflix + Minecraft = <3"     by Per Landin  – Minecraft.net, May 30, 2024.

  "‘Minecraft’ Animated Series in the Works at Netflix Featuring New Characters"     by Selome Hailu  – Variety, May 30, 2024.

 "Mob Squad"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, September 28, 2021. "The original inspiration for the book was my love of 80s movies in which groups of kids bond together and go on crazy adventures – Monster Squad, The Goonies, Stand By Me, The Chipmunk Adventure, and even the more recent Stranger Things."

Navigation