For other uses, see Netherite and Ingot.

Netherite Ingot

Rarity tier

  Common

Renewable

No

Stackable

Yes (64)

{
    "title": "Netherite Ingot",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "<span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: #fff; border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> </span> Common",
            "label": "(link to Rarity article, displayed as Rarity tier)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Netherite Ingot"
    ],
    "images": [
        "Netherite Ingot.png"
    ]
}

A netherite ingot is an item obtained from crafting four netherite scraps and four gold ingots together, as well as being loot from bastion remnant loot chests. Unlike other items, it is immune to being destroyed by fire and lava. They are primarily used to upgrade diamond gear.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Crafting
1.2 Generated loot

2 Usage

2.1 Crafting ingredient
2.2 Smithing ingredient
2.3 Repairing
2.4 Beacons

3 Data values

3.1 ID
3.2 Advancements

4 History

4.1 Java Edition
4.2 Bedrock Edition

5 Issues
6 External links
7 Navigation

Obtaining
Netherite ingots are obtained by crafting four netherite scraps and four gold ingots. It is a shapeless recipe, therefore the placement of the netherite scraps and gold ingots does not matter when crafting it.

Crafting

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Netherite Scrap +Gold Ingot

Block of Netherite

9

Generated loot
Netherite Ingots generate as loot in treasure bastion remnants, in the treasure chests (located at the bottom of the treasure room in the stash of blocks of gold).

Item

Structure

Container

Quantity

Chance

Java Edition

Netherite Ingot

Bastion Remnant

Treasure chest

1

35%{ "item": "Netherite Ingot", "stacksize": 1, "chance": 0.35037738588739065, "structure": "Bastion Remnant", "container": "Treasure chest" }

Bedrock Edition

Netherite Ingot

Bastion Remnant

Treasure chest

1

37.9%{ "item": "Netherite Ingot", "stacksize": 1, "chance": 0.37947791573376755, "structure": "Bastion Remnant", "container": "Treasure chest" }

Usage
Netherite ingots are crafting materials used to make netherite tools, weapons, and armor.

Crafting ingredient

Name
Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Block of Netherite

Netherite Ingot

Smithing ingredient
Netherite ingots can be used on a smithing table to upgrade diamond items to netherite items, as well as trim any armor piece. Data such as durability, enchantments, and custom names are preserved. A set of all netherite tools and armor costs 10 netherite ingots.

Name
Ingredients
Smithing recipe
Notes

Netherite Helmet or Netherite Chestplate or Netherite Leggings or Netherite Boots or Netherite Sword or Netherite Pickaxe or Netherite Axe or Netherite Shovel or Netherite Hoe or Netherite Spear or Netherite Nautilus Armor or Netherite Horse Armor

Netherite Upgrade +Any diamond gear +Netherite Ingot

Netherite Trim Diamond Chestplate or Netherite Trim Leather Tunic or Netherite Trim Golden Chestplate or Netherite Trim Chainmail Chestplate or Netherite Trim Copper Chestplate or Netherite Trim Iron Chestplate

Any Armor Trim+ Any Armor Piece + Netherite Ingot

All armor types can be used in this recipe;chestplates are shown as an example.

Trim color palette
The following color palettes are shown on the designs on trimmed armor:

 (a darker color palette is used when a netherite armor piece is trimmed using a netherite ingot).
Repairing
Netherite ingots are the repair items for the netherite tier and armor material, and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil:

Netherite Helmet
Netherite Chestplate
Netherite Leggings
Netherite Boots
Netherite Sword
Netherite Pickaxe
Netherite Axe
Netherite Shovel
Netherite Hoe
Netherite Spear
Beacons
A netherite ingot could be used to select powers from a beacon instead of using an emerald, gold ingot, iron ingot, or a diamond. The player must select one of the available powers, and then insert an ingot in the item slot. The gold option is more efficient than the netherite option because it consumes 3 fewer gold and no netherite scrap.

Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierFormItem tags
Translation key Netherite Ingotnetherite_ingotItembeacon_payment_items
item.minecraft.netherite_ingot
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierNumeric ID FormItem tags
Translation key Netherite Ingotnetherite_ingot603Itemminecraft:trim_materials
item.netherite_ingot.name
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Serious DedicationUse a Netherite Ingot to upgrade a Hoe, and then reevaluate your life choicesHave a netherite hoe in the inventory.
History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1620w06a
 Added netherite ingots.20w07a
Netherite ingots can now be used to power beacons.20w10a
The crafting recipe for netherite tools and armor has been changed so that a smithing table is used instead of a crafting table and enchantments are preserved when upgrading items.20w13a
Netherite ingots can now be used to craft lodestones.20w16a
Netherite ingots can now be found in bastion remnant chests.1.16.220w30a
Increased the chance of finding netherite ingots in bastion remnant chests from 16.8% to 42.1%.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w04a
Netherite ingots can now be used as an armor trim material.
Upgrading diamond tools and armor to netherite now requires the netherite upgrade smithing template in addition to a netherite ingot.23w05a
Netherite ingots can now be used to trim netherite armor.1.2023w12a
Netherite ingots are now usable for trimming without requiring the "Update 1.20" experimental datapack to be enabled.1.21.525w02a
Netherite ingots are no longer used to craft lodestones.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.16.0beta 1.16.0.51
 Added netherite ingots.beta 1.16.0.57
Netherite ingots can now be used to power beacons.

The crafting recipe for netherite tools and armor has been changed so that a smithing table is used instead of a crafting table and enchantments are preserved when upgrading items.

Netherite ingots can now be used to craft lodestones.

Netherite ingots can now be found in bastion remnant chests.1.17.10beta 1.17.10.20
 The texture of netherite ingots has been changed to match Java Edition.1.19.80ExperimentNext Major UpdatePreview 1.19.80.21
Netherite ingots can now be used as an armor trim material.
Upgrading diamond tools and armor to netherite now requires the netherite upgrade smithing template in addition to a netherite ingot.1.20.0Preview 1.20.0.21
Netherite ingots are now usable for trimming without requiring the "Next Major Update" experimental toggle to be enabled.1.21.60ExperimentDrop 1 2025Preview 1.21.60.25
Netherite ingots are no longer used to craft lodestones.
Issues
Issues relating to "Netherite Ingot" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

External links
"Taking Inventory: Netherite Ingot"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, May 28, 2020.
Navigation