For the block that fills the interior of the portal, see Nether Portal (block).   For other uses, see Portal.

Nether Portal

Generates inexisting chunks  

Yes, only when an entity goes through a portal and there is no other active portal within 128 blocks of the matching coordinate

Consists of

Obsidian
Nether Portal

{
    "title": "Nether Portal",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes, only when an entity goes through a portal and there is no other active portal within 128 blocks of the matching coordinate",
            "label": "Generates in<br>existing chunks  "
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BlockSprite obsidian.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Obsidian|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Obsidian article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Obsidian</span>)</span>\n* <span class=\"nowrap\"><span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"\">(link to File:BlockSprite nether-portal.png article, displayed as 16x16px|link=Nether Portal (block)|alt=|class=pixel-image|)</span>(link to Nether Portal (block) article, displayed as <span class=\"sprite-text\">Nether Portal</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Consists of"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Nether portal.gif"
    ]
}

A Nether portal is a manufactured structure made of obsidian that acts as a gateway between the Overworld and the Nether dimensions.

Contents

1 Creation
2 Behavior

2.1 Chunk loading
2.2 Portal linkage between Overworld and Nether

2.2.1 Coordinate conversion
2.2.2 Portal search
2.2.3 Portal creation

3 Sounds
4 Achievements
5 Advancements
6 Videos
7 History

7.1 History of the structure itself

7.1.1 Java Edition
7.1.2 Bedrock Edition
7.1.3 Legacy Console Edition
7.1.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

7.2 Other historical info

7.2.1 Development
7.2.2 Java Edition
7.2.3 Bedrock Edition
7.2.4 Legacy Console Edition
7.2.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

8 Issues
9 Trivia

9.1 Publicity

10 Gallery

10.1 Screenshots
10.2 Mojang screenshots
10.3 Development images
10.4 In other media

11 References
12 Navigation

Creation

Portal build

Minimal version

The Nether portal is built as a vertical, rectangular frame of obsidian (4×5 minimum, 23×23 maximum). The four corners of the frame are not required, but portals created by the game always include them, resulting in 4 free/extra obsidian. The obsidian can be placed in any manner, e.g. by placing mined obsidian, by completing a ruined portal, or by casting it in place using lava and water. Adjacent portals can share obsidian blocks. A Nether portal cannot be built horizontally like an end portal.
Once a frame is constructed, it is activated by fire placed inside the frame. This creates portal blocks inside the frame, resembling a vortex. The fire can be placed in any manner, including use of flint and steel or a fire charge, the impact of a fireball or small fireball, a lightning strike, or natural spread of fire to flammable material adjacent to the portal. Nether portals cannot be activated in The End.
The fire must be the last placed block in the structure—a fire on an incomplete frame does not result in the portal activating upon the placement of the last obsidian block.
If no corresponding portal within range exists in the other dimension when a portal is used by almost any entity except withers and the ender dragon‌[Java Edition  only], then one is created there; see § Portal search and § Portal creation

Behavior
Main article: Nether Portal (block)
When a player in the Overworld or the Nether stands in a Nether portal block for 80 game ticks (4 seconds) in survival mode or 1 game tick (1⁄20 second) in creative mode, the player is taken to the other dimension (In Java Edition, the teleport delay can be configured by changing the gamerule playersNetherPortalDefaultDelay and playersNetherPortalCreativeDelay for players in Creative Mode). The player can step out of a portal before it completes its animation to abort the teleport. If there is already an active portal within range (about 128 blocks) in the other dimension, the player appears in that portal. Otherwise, a portal is created at or near the corresponding coordinates. If a portal is deactivated, and the matching portal in the other dimension is used before it is re-activated, a new portal may be created (unless there is another active portal within range). The usual cause for this is when the player's Nether-side portal is deactivated by a ghast, and then the player dies in the Nether, spawns, and then re-enters the Nether through the Overworld-side portal. However, multiple portals can be exploited to farm obsidian.
Most entities can travel through portals, including mobs (except the wither and ender dragon), thrown items, and transportation with passengers‌[Java Edition  only], including boats, minecarts and horses. Unlike players, other entities travel through portals instantly, and once they reach the other side, there is a cool-down time for 300 game ticks (15 seconds), in which they cannot go through any Nether portals. Therefore, an entity can travel though Nether portals again after not touching any Nether portal for 15 seconds. An exception are minecarts and boats, which have a 10 tick (0.5 seconds) cooldown. In Bedrock Edition, a parrot on the player's shoulder prevents the player from going through the portal.
Another exception is an entity ridden by a player, the whole assemblage of which has the unusual combination of instant travel as well as no cooldown.[verify for Bedrock Edition]
Zombified piglins have a chance​[more information needed] to spawn on the bottom frame of the portal in the Overworld in Java Edition if any Nether portal block above receives a block tick. In Bedrock Edition they spawn in certain squares adjacent to the portals in the Overworld, not inside them. Zombified piglins spawned in this way have a full 15-second portal cooldown, meaning they can't go through the portal they are spawned in unless they leave the portal for a while. They spawn twice as often on Normal difficulty as on Easy, and three times as often on Hard difficulty as on Easy. No other mobs can be spawned by Nether portals in this way, in any dimension.
Active portals also repel hoglins.

Chunk loading



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Main article: Chunk § Chunk loading
Whenever an entity is teleported through a Nether portal, the chunk at the linked portal gets load ticked with load level of 30, meaning that it is fully loaded and can process entities. This load level also spreads to adjacent chunks but they get lower for each chunk. This results in 8 more fully loaded "entity ticking" chunks with gradually fewer loaded chunks further out.
These chunks remain loaded for 15 seconds but this timer gets refreshed each time the entity passes through the portal (including mobs wandering through it from either direction). This can be used to permanently load chunks, creating a "chunk loader". Permanently-loaded chunks created using chunk loaders create a measurable amount of lag.

Portal linkage between Overworld and Nether
See also: Tutorial:Nether portals

An interactive widget is being loaded. If this does not work for you, please reload the page or check if JavaScript is working or enabled.
The closest portal to the corresponding location receives the player.
A new portal is generated in the closest empty area if no portal is found in range.
Coordinate conversion
Horizontal coordinates and distances in the Nether are proportional to the Overworld in a 1:8 ratio. That is, by moving 1 block horizontally in the Nether, players have moved the equivalent of 8 blocks on the Overworld. This does not apply to the Y-axis. Thus, for a given location (X, Y, Z) in the Overworld, the corresponding coordinates in the Nether are (floor(X ÷ 8), Y, floor(Z ÷ 8)), and conversely, for a location (X, Y, Z) in the Nether, the matching Overworld coordinates are (X × 8, Y, Z × 8).
The Java floor() method used in these conversions rounds down to the largest integer less than or equal to the argument (toward smaller positive values and toward larger negative values), so a coordinate of 29.9 rounds to 29, and one of −29.9 to −30.
Both the X and Z coordinates in this conversion are constrained to be within the world border (29,999,983 and -29,999,984 (inclusive)); this affects travel to the Overworld from the Nether at X or Z beyond ±3,749,998.

Portal search
When an entity starts colliding with a Nether portal block, the game records the coordinates of the entity.
The game then converts those coordinates into destination coordinates as above: The entry X- and Z-coordinates are multiplied by 8 if the entity is in the Nether or divided by 8 if the entity is in the Overworld, while the Y-coordinate is not changed.
Starting at these destination coordinates, the game looks for all nearby portal points of interest. In Java Edition, the point of interest can be within a 256×256 square block area (128-block radius) in the Overworld and a 32×32 square block area (16-block radius) in the Nether centered on the converted coordinate and the full map height. In Bedrock Edition, the point of interest can be within a 256×256 square block area (128-block radius) in both the Overworld and Nether.
If any candidate portal point of interest is found, then the game selects the closest one as determined by its distance in the new coordinate system (including the Y coordinate, which can cause seemingly more distant portals to be selected), and teleports the entity to the location in the new portal calculated by a special algorithm. Note that the calculated distance is Euclidean distance, not taxicab distance. The distance computation between portals in the range is a straight-line distance calculation, and the shortest path is chosen, counting the Y difference.
The algorithm used for determining the position of the entity inside the destination portal to teleport to is as follows:

Portal rectangle dimensions are determined for both source and destination portals. (Not counting the obsidian)
Entity hitbox dimensions are subtracted from those rectangles' width and height, meaning that the entity can now be considered as a point, to avoid problems with preserving the hitbox dimensions in a geometrical transformation.
Distance between the bottom of the source portal and the bottom of the entity hitbox is measured, similar is done for distance to one of the sides of the portal.
Those offsets are then multiplied by the ratio of the reduced sizes of the portals and used to get the position in the destination portal.
If one of the dimensions of entity hitbox is larger than the portal, the corresponding dimension falls back to bottom-middle of the destination portal, the other dimension is still calculated using the algorithm.
If the destination portal is at 90° to the source portal, entity yaw and velocity are rotated 90° clockwise, regardless of the direction of travel, meaning that if player travels there and back without touching their mouse, they get rotated 180°, but the coordinates remain the same, making it appear as if the player exited through the wrong side of the portal ‌[Java Edition  only].
This way, if source and destination portals are of the same shape, have the same orientation, and no other portals are interfering with the linking, one can safely assume that entities can travel through them as if the portal frames were physically placed behind each other.

Portal creation
If no portals exist in the search region, the game creates a new one by looking for the closest suitable location to place a portal, within 16 blocks horizontally (but any distance vertically) of the incoming entity's destination coordinates. A valid location consists of 3×4 buildable blocks​[more information needed] with 4 blocks of air above all 12 blocks, with the long axis matching the long axis of the source portal. The closest valid position in the 3D distance is always picked. The incoming entity can be almost any entity except withers and the ender dragon in Java Edition or only be a player in Bedrock Edition.
This means that if a portal constructed in the Nether exceeds 18 blocks wide, each end will connect to two separate Overworld portals.
If the first check for valid locations fails entirely, the check is redone looking for a 1×4 expanse of buildable blocks with air 4 high above each.

A floating Nether portal
If that fails, too, a portal is forced at the target coordinates, but with Y constrained to be between 70 and 10 less than the world height (i.e. 118 for the Nether or 310 for the Overworld). When a portal is forced in this way, a 2×3 platform of obsidian with air 3 high above is created at the target location, overwriting whatever might be there. This provides air space underground or a small platform if floating. In Bedrock Edition, these obsidian blocks are flanked by 4 more blocks of netherrack on each side, which is the only renewable source of netherrack.
Once coordinates are chosen, a portal (always 4×5 and including the corners) including portal blocks is constructed at the target coordinates, replacing anything in the way.
If a portal is forced into water or lava, the liquid immediately flows into the generated air blocks, leaving the player with no airspace. However, a glitch can prevent this water from flowing into the portal: if the liquid would flow both vertically and horizontally into the air pocket, it instead flows only vertically, so the blocks on the platform's outer corners never become water source blocks.

Sounds
Java Edition

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Portal whooshesBlocksRandomlyblock.portal.ambient​​subtitles.block.portal.ambient​​​0.50.8–1.210​Portal noise fadesAmbient/EnvironmentAfter the player is teleported through a Nether portalblock.portal.travel​​subtitles.block.portal.travel​​​0.250.8–1.216​Portal noise intensifiesAmbient/EnvironmentWhen the player enters a Nether portalblock.portal.trigger​​subtitles.block.portal.trigger​​​0.250.8–1.216
 The subtitle refers to it generically as a portal rather than specifically a Nether portal: see MC-218020

 The sound event and translation string still refers to this generically as "portal", despite the block being named "nether_portal"; see also MC-193751

Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksRandomlyportal.portal​ ?0.250.8–1.2​ ?Ambient/EnvironmentAfter the player is teleported through a Nether portalportal.travel​ ?1.01.0​ ?Ambient/EnvironmentWhen the player enters a Nether portalportal.trigger​ ?1.01.0
Achievements
IconAchievementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Gamerscore earnedTrophy type (PS)PS4OtherInto The NetherConstruct a Nether Portal.Enter a Nether portal.30Bronze
Advancements
IconAdvancementIn-game descriptionActual requirements (if different)Ice Bucket ChallengeObtain a block of ObsidianHave a block of obsidian in the inventory.We Need to Go DeeperBuild, light and enter a Nether PortalEnter the Nether dimension.NetherBring summer clothesEnter the Nether dimension.Subspace BubbleUse the Nether to travel 7 km in the OverworldUse the Nether to travel between 2 points in the Overworld with a minimum horizontal euclidean distance of 7000 blocks between each other, which is 875 blocks in the Nether.Uneasy AllianceRescue a Ghast from the Nether, bring it safely home to the Overworld... and then kill itReceive kill credit for a ghast while being in the Overworld. The ghast does not have to be in the Overworld.
Videos
Note: These videos are from Java Edition 1.5, so most of the  major features to the Nether were not yet introduced.









History
History of the structure itself



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Nether portals during a1.2.0-preview, Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4 Nether portals, and Texture Update Nether portals (and Nether portal block).


Java Edition
Java Edition Alphav1.2.0preview
Added Nether portals.v1.2.2a
The player can now create a Nether portal by pressing F4 (presumably a developer testing function).v1.2.2b
The F4 cheat has been removed from Nether portals.Java Edition1.7.2September 11, 2013
Dinnerbone releases images of larger and different shaped Nether portals, also mentions the ability to light a portal from any block, not just the bottom row.
Both the sign and circular nature of the portal in the second image are references to Stargate, Col. Jack O'Neill was often heard mentioning his hatred for cliches.13w37a
Portals can now be activated from any block within the portal, not just the bottom (when any fire block appears inside the frame).

There are now new Nether portal building rules: portals can now be built at a minimum of 4×5, and a maximum of 23×23.

Nether portals now use block data values (later changed to block state) to determine their orientation. Old portals created in 1.6.4 and earlier have a tendency to close when upgrading.1.1620w16a
Added ruined portals.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.12.1build 1
Added Nether portals.

Nether portals can be built at a minimum of 4×5, and a maximum of 23×23.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added Nether portals.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
There are now new Nether portal building rules: Any rectangular shape from 4×5 to 23×23.

If the Nether portal in the Nether is big enough, ghasts can now travel through.

Nether portals can now be activated by any fire block within the frame.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added Nether portals.
Other historical info
Development
October 4, 2010
A poster on Notch's blog announced a new "hell world," and hinted that it would utilize portals for fast travels.October 22, 2010
Originally, ghasts were intended to spawn from Nether portals (referred to as "gates") in the Overworld. However, this ability has not yet been implemented.October 29, 2010
Notch sent a preview of the Halloween Update to two gaming companies; their articles detailed the usage of Nether portals, used for entering what was then known as "the Slip".
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.6Test Build 3
Nether portals now work in multiplayer. Before this update, Nether portals could be created on multiplayer servers, but could not teleport players to the Nether, thus multiplayer servers required modding to access the Nether.

Compared to singleplayer, nether portals in multiplayer appear noticeably less polished: they do not play the travel.ogg or the screen animation used after traveling, and the loading screen does not display "Entering the Nether" or "Leaving the Nether".

Standing in a Nether portal now forces all GUIs to close, including the pause menu and chat.

The nausea screen animation shown while entering a nether portal is now slower.Java Edition1.2.112w07a
The Overworld's height limit has been raised to 256, but portals from the Nether cannot find portals above Y=128.1.3.112w18a
As a result of singleplayer being changed to an internal server, all of the aforementioned issues with multiplayer nether portals have been transferred to singleplayer as well.12w22a
Zombie pigmen now rarely spawn from Nether portals in the Overworld.?
Portals from the Nether now search the entire height of the Overworld.1.4.212w34a
Non-player entities can now travel through portals.

The screen animation and sound used when entering a portal is now replayed after traveling through, rather than having no animation (as before this snapshot) or a unique animation (as before 12w18a).12w38a
The Nether now loads faster when traveling through a Nether portal in Survival mode and loads immediately when in Creative mode.1.7.213w41a
Nether portals, water and ice are now visible through each other.1.814w31a
The pause menu can once again be opened while standing in a Nether portal.1.915w33c
A non-player entity going through a Nether portal no longer causes a return portal to generate on the other side if none exists already.16w02a
Nether portals now play travel.ogg again.1.14Pre-Release 5
Non-player entities now keep the other side loaded for 15 seconds after an entity goes through if the portal is linked.
Non-player entities no longer travel through non-linked Nether portal instead of appearing on the other side with no portal to come back.1.1519w36a
Nether portals in the Overworld now correctly link with portals placed in the top half (128–255) of the Nether dimension.

Search for an existing portal to connect to is now chunk based: the searched area is now 17×17 chunks instead of 257×257 blocks.1.1620w06a
Traveling through Nether portals is now almost seamless.20w14a
Hoglins are now scared of active portals.1.16.220w28a
Reduced the portal search radius when travelling to the Nether from 128 blocks to 16 blocks in order to correctly account for the 1:8 position scale.1.20Pre-release 1
Nether portals once again produce the correct screen animation after changing dimensions.1.20.323w42a
Nether portal delay can now be configured with the gamerules playersNetherPortalDefaultDelay and playersNetherPortalCreativeDelay.1.2124w21a
Non-Player entities can once again travel through non-linked Nether portals and generate a portal on the other side.

Added game rule entitiesWithPassengersCanUsePortals, allowing entities with passengers to travel through nether portals.pre1
Removed game rule entitiesWithPassengersCanUsePortals. Entities with passengers can now use Nether portals by default.1.21.224w33a
Reduced teleport cooldown for minecarts and boats from 15 seconds to 0.5 seconds.
Reduced teleport cooldown for projectiles from 15 seconds to 0.1 seconds.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alpha?
The sounds of Nether portals have been updated to match Java.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU19CU71.121.121.12Patch 11.0.1
Non-player entities can now travel through portals.
The screen animation used when entering a portal is now always replayed after traveling through, rather than only sometimes.[is this the correct version?]
Players in creative mode are now teleported into the other dimension instantly.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
If the Nether portal in the Nether is big enough, ghasts can now travel through.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
A non-player entity going through a Nether portal no longer causes a return portal to generate one on the other side, if one does not exist already.[is this the correct version?]
Nether portals now play travel.ogg. Unlike in other editions, the sound isn't random pitched.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition1.9.19
The screen animation used when entering a portal is now replayed after traveling through, rather than having a unique animation.
Issues
Issues relating to "Nether Portal" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Portals can be placed together in a tunnel-like fashion, though it appears as if the third portal is lit as the first two in a row mimic glass. If more than six portals are connected, the inner portals are completely invisible while in the portal tunnel; however, the particle effects can still be seen throughout. These connected portals also share the 4-second countdown until teleportation, so as long as the player is within a connected portal, they are sent to another dimension.
The player cannot open their inventory while standing in an active portal, and any other GUI (such as that of a chest or villager) is immediately closed when opened.
If two portals intersect and the player lights a fire in the intersection (i.e., in both portals at once), only the portal that lies within the x-axis is activated. Lighting any other block activates whichever portal it is in.
Minecraft's "Visit the Nether!" describes the portal surface as "a translucent, purple, liquid-like substance."
Nether portals can theoretically spawn pre-lit, if two ruined portals or a ruined portal and one of the rooms with obsidian of a woodland mansion intersect so that a complete obsidian frame is formed, and fire spreads into the middle of the frame through natural means.
Publicity
A LEGO Minecraft Nether portal was included in the LEGO Minecraft Set: "The Nether".
On 29 October 2010, PC Gamer released this video, showing a portal being constructed and used.
On 1 April 2011, Think Geek released this video to advertise one of their annual fake April Fools products: the Minecraft USB Desktop Nether Portal.
Gallery
Screenshots



			A zombified piglin wandered through a Nether portal and into the Overworld.



			A view of inside a portal.



			The biggest Nether portal size (23×23 exterior, 21×21 opening).



			Nether portal generated on a cliff in crimson forest.



			A cluster of Nether portal frames generated by repeatedly going through the Nether-side portal, deactivating the Overworld-side portal and teleporting back to the Nether.


Mojang screenshots



			Ari and Noor entering into a Nether portal.



			Efe failing to construct a Nether portal


Development images



			Screenshot of a lit Nether portal during a1.2.0-preview.



			Image released for 1.7.2 by Dinnerbone on September 11, 2013



			7×7 portal.



			Large Portal.



			A large Nether portal.



			Darngeek standing in front of a Nether portal.



			Two Nether portals next to each other.



			Screenshot from Searge showing a 3×4 Nether portal.


In other media



			A Nether portal in a mangrove swamp, as shown in the Wild Update trailer.



			A snifflet wandering into a Nether portal.



			A Nether portal in the jungle.



			A camel peeking out of a portal.



			A Nether portal as it appears in the Minecraft Legends Live Event.



			An officially licensed "Nether Portal Glitter Motion Light."



			Official artwork featuring a Nether portal.



			Official artwork featuring multiple Nether portals.



			Official artwork featuring a nether portal.



			Official artwork featuring a nether portal.



			Pixel art of Zuri leaping out of a portal, featured on Minecraft.net.



			A nether portal in A Minecraft Movie.



			A nether portal as it appears in Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles


References

 MCPE-27950

 MC-197538 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 "Bunch of other small tweaks to them too; you can light a portal from any block, not just the bottom row. Good for automatic on/off toggling"  – @Dinnerbone (Nathan Adams) on X (formerly Twitter), September 11, 2013

 "@BlakesAwesome No it doesn't"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), April 1, 2011

 "Minecraft Halloween Update hands-on"     by Tom Francis  – PC Gamer, October 29, 2010.

 "Hands-On With the Minecraft Halloween Update"   (Archive)  by Michael Rose  – IndieGames.com, October 29, 2010.

 MC-180 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-67 – Entities with passengers cannot travel through portals – resolved as "Fixed".

 "Visit the Nether!"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, November 10, 2019.

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j8DVLpUld7E

 https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/about-minecraft

Navigation