The Nether roof, with red and brown mushrooms spotted around.
The Nether roof is the largely empty space above the bedrock ceiling of the Nether. In contrast to the void, the player does not take damage from the Nether roof.
In Java Edition, the player can place blocks up to 128 blocks over the Nether roof. The Nether roof was once seen as a bug, but is now unofficially maintained by Mojang.
In Bedrock Edition, it is not possible to build on top of the Nether roof. If the player manages to get there, they get teleported back into the main part of the Nether once reentering the world. As such, the space above the Nether ceiling is not usable.

Contents

1 Accessing and exiting
2 Generation
3 Usage
4 Trivia
5 History

5.1 Java Edition
5.2 Legacy Console Edition

6 References
7 Navigation

Accessing and exiting
Main article: Tutorial:Breaking bedrock
Because the Nether roof is technically unintended behavior and it is not possible to break bedrock in normal gameplay, there is no proper way to access it. Therefore, bugs must be used to access the Nether roof; the most common way to do this is to teleport through the bedrock blocks with ender pearls.
Once on the roof, in Java Edition, it can be exited by making a hole in the bedrock layer or by making Nether portals. In Bedrock Edition, it can be exited by leaving and rejoining.[verify] Both methods in Java Edition can be used to gain permanent access to the roof, since portals built on the roof can link to corresponding portals in the Overworld.

Generation
With Vibrant Visuals, the Nether roof has unique red ambient lighting bleeding about half a block down.
The Nether roof is completely flat, consisting of only a layer of bedrock. Mobs do not spawn on bedrock. So mobs can spawn here only if someone has grown or built something they can spawn on.
In Java Edition, brown and red mushrooms can be found on this Bedrock layer.
The Nether roof does not have its own biome. Instead, its biome depends on the biome under the roof and the lighting changes with the biome as it would below the Bedrock layer.

Usage



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Due to the amount of empty space available and the mob spawning rules, the Nether roof is especially advantageous for building farms that require mob spawns. Examples for farms commonly built on the Nether roof include hoglin farms, gold farms, and bartering farms.
The Nether roof is also useful for building transportation networks. The Nether allows for 8 times shorter travel distances, and by building Nether portals, it is possible to travel quickly between destinations using ice highways or other methods of transportation. Although it is possible to do this below the Nether roof as well, building these transportation systems on the roof is easier, since there is less terrain and there are no natural mob spawns.

Trivia
When discussing uses of the new happy ghast during Minecraft LIVE – March 2025's after-show, a developer mentioned high-altitude builds on the Nether roof.
The Nether roof was most recently mentioned as a visitable place during Minecraft LIVE – March 2026.
History
Java Edition
Java Edition Alphav1.2.0
Nether added, including the Nether roof.Java Edition1.2.112w07a
With the build limit increase from 128 to 256, it is now possible to build on the Nether roof.1.1519w36a
Nether portals above the Nether roof now link both ways. Previously, Nether portals from the overworld could not teleport entities to portals that are above the Nether roof.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added the Nether roof.TU12
With the build limit increase from 128 to 256 it is now possible to build on the Nether roof.TU31CU191.221.221.22Patch 3
Mobs can now spawn above the Nether roof.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Blocks above the Nether ceiling can no longer be broken by the player.
Added a barrier a few blocks above the Nether ceiling that prevents entities from moving down.
Mobs can no longer spawn above the Nether roof.[verify][is this the correct version?]TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
Now the Nether ceiling is full of barriers, causing entities to be stuck at the block they are in.TU63CU531.671.671.67Patch 321.0.13
Ender pearls are no longer able to teleport the player above the Nether roof.
References

 Minecraft LIVE – March 2025: The Deep Dig (After-show)

Navigation