There is a category for this topic! 
See Category:Non-renewable resources for a list of pages relating to this topic.

A non-renewable resource (as opposed to a renewable resource) is a resource that cannot be obtained in indefinite quantities in Survival without using certain glitches, commands, or Creative mode to create more of them. While running out of resources other than the unique dragon egg is not likely to be a factor in normal gameplay due to the massive size of a Minecraft world, in principle there is a finite quantity of these resources available in each Minecraft world.

Contents

1 Obtaining
2 Generated structures

2.1 Enchantments on items without prior-work anvil penalty

3 Other
4 Not obtainable in Survival
5 Not encountered in Survival
6 Bedrock Edition
7 Java Edition
8 Peaceful difficulty

8.1 Unavailable in Peaceful difficulty

9 Notes
10 References
11 Navigation

Obtaining
Non-renewable resources can be found as naturally generated blocks, obtained from structure loot chests or as drops from certain mobs that do not respawn (like elder guardians), or obtained through crafting recipes that consume other non-renewable items.
Some resources are non-renewable or even unobtainable if playing on Peaceful difficulty, as hostile mobs do not spawn.
The degree of impact the non-renewability of a resource has on normal gameplay generally depends on how limited the resource is, but on custom maps and superflat worlds they can have a significant impact.
All status effects and enchantment-item combinations that cannot be obtained in Survival are non-renewable.
Shulker boxes and bundles containing non-renewable items are non-renewable.

Generated structures
These non-renewable resources are found only as loot from generated structures, the blocks the structures are composed of, or as non-renewable drops from mobs that generate with the structures, and cannot be obtained in other ways. This renders most of them unavailable in worlds with the "Generate Structures" option disabled‌[Java Edition  only], with the exception of the items that can be found in monster rooms or desert wells, which are unaffected by the option. These resources are generally the most finite resources in the game, though some are relatively common.

Resource

Non-renewable products

Sources

Banner Patterns

―

Flow and guster banner patterns can be obtained as a reward from vaults found in trial chambers.
Snout banner patterns can be found in bastion remnant chests.
Like other banner patterns, they are not consumed when used.

Decorated Pot
(With trial chambers Pottery Sherds)

Decorated pots with flow, guster and scrape pottery sherds can be found in trial chambers.

Disc Fragment

Found in ancient city loot chests.

Dragon Egg

―

Spawns on top of the exit portal when the ender dragon is defeated for the first (and second‌[BE  only]) time. Only one is (two are‌[BE  only]) obtainable in each world, making it the rarest obtainable resource in the game.

Dragon Head

―

Generates on the End ship alongside End cities.

Echo Shard

Found in ancient city loot chests.

Elytra

―

Generates in the End ship alongside End cities.

Enchanted Book(With Swift Sneak I-III)

(With Swift Sneak I-III)

Found in ancient city loot chests.

Enchanted Book(With Wind Burst I)

(With Wind Burst II-III)(With Wind Burst I-III)

Obtained as a reward from ominous vaults found in trial chambers.

Enchanted Golden Apple

Rarely found in the chests of ancient cities, monster rooms, desert pyramids, mineshafts, ruined portals, woodland mansions, and bastion remnants. They can also be obtained more commonly from ominous vaults found in trial chambers.

Gilded Blackstone

―

Generates in bastion remnants, both as a part of the structure and as chest loot.

Heart of the Sea

One can be found in every buried treasure chest, which can be found using treasure maps found in shipwrecks or ocean ruins.

Heavy Core

Obtained as a reward from ominous vaults found in trial chambers.

Large Fern

―

Can be found in generated chests of taiga villager houses.Large ferns can be renewably created by using renewable bone meal on renewable ferns, but do not drop themselves when broken, even with Silk Touch.

Music Discs

―

Precipice, Creator, and Creator (Music Box) music discs can be obtained in trial chambers from vaults, ominous vaults, and decorated pots, respectively.Bounce music discs can be found in mineshaft minecart with chests within sulfur caves.Pigstep music discs can be found in bastion remnant chests.Otherside music discs can be found in monster rooms, stronghold corridor chests, and ancient city loot chests.Relic music discs can be excavated as rare loot from suspicious gravel generated in trail ruins.

Nautilus Armor

―

Copper, iron, and golden can be obtained from shipwreck, ocean ruins, and buried treasure chests.

Diamond Nautilus Armor

Diamond nautilus armor can be obtained from shipwreck, ocean ruins, and buried treasure chests.
Netherite nautilus armor can be obtained by upgrading diamond nautilus armor at a smithing table.

Non-leather Horse Armor

―

Can be found in generated chests of monster rooms, desert pyramids, End cities, jungle pyramids, Nether fortresses, strongholds, and villages. Gold horse armor can also be found in ruined portals.

Diamond Horse Armor

Can be found in generated chests of monster rooms, ancient cities, desert pyramids, End cities, jungle pyramids, Nether fortresses, strongholds, and villages.

Pottery Sherds

(With pottery sherds)

Archer, miner, prize and skull pottery sherds can be excavated from suspicious sand generated in desert pyramids.
Arms up and brewer pottery sherds can be excavated from suspicious sand generated in desert wells.Angler, shelter and snort pottery sherds can be excavated from suspicious sand generated in warm ocean ruins.Blade, explorer, mourner and plenty pottery sherds can be excavated from suspicious gravel generated in cold ocean ruins.Burn, danger, friend, heart, heartbreak, howl and sheaf pottery sherds can be excavated from suspicious gravel generated in trail ruins.

Suspicious Gravel and Suspicious Sand

―

Suspicious sand generates in desert pyramids, desert wells, and warm biome ocean ruins, suspicious gravel generates in cold biome ocean ruins and in trail ruins.
Both can be collected as an item by making the falling entity float on a bubble column or in a cobweb until it breaks. The resulting item does not drop any loot if placed and excavated.

Tall Grass

―

Can be found in generated chests of savanna villager houses.Tall grass can be renewably created by using renewable bone meal on renewable short grass, but do not drop itself when broken, even with Silk Touch.

Wet Sponge

Generate in the sponge rooms of ocean monuments.Dropped by elder guardians.Formed when water touches a sponge. Sponges are formed when wet sponges are dried in a furnace or placed in the Nether.

Enchantments on items without prior-work anvil penalty
While all enchantments obtainable in Survival other than Swift Sneak and Wind Burst are renewable, for treasure enchantments the only renewable way to get them on most items is by using an anvil to combine the item with a renewable enchanted book. Using an anvil in this way causes the item to gain prior work penalty, increasing the cost of future anvil use. Similar limitations apply to some high level enchantments, which cannot be renewably obtained on items with insufficient enchantability without using an anvil.
This renders most types of items that have at least one of these enchantments without having any prior-work penalty non-renewable. Many of these item variants are unobtainable in Survival, but some of them can be found in the loot chests of various generated structures.
Items in bastion remnant, ruined portal and shipwreck loot chests are limited to one enchantment, while items from End city or ancient city chests often have multiple. Trial chambers loot contains both types, depending on the type of item and loot table used.

Enchantment

Items

Sources

Bane of Arthropods I-V ‌[JE  only]

Golden axes can be found in ruined portal and bastion remnant chests.‌[JE  only] Iron axes can be found in trial chambers containers.
In Bedrock Edition, axes can renewably receive Bane of Arthropods I-V without gaining prior-work penalty through normal enchanting.

Breach IV ​[upcoming: Villager Trade Rebalance]

Enchanted books with Breach can be found in ominous vaults.
When Villager Trade Rebalance is not enabled, enchanted books with Breach IV can be renewably obtained without prior-work penalty through librarian trades.

Curse of Binding

Diamond armor can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests.Iron and diamond chestplates can be found in trial chambers vaults.
Golden armor can be found in bastion remnant and ruined portal chests. Iron armor can be found in End city chests.Leather armor can be found in shipwreck supply chests. Diamond and iron leggings can be found in ancient city loot chests.

Curse of Vanishing

Diamond armor, swords, pickaxes and shovels can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests.Iron and diamond chestplates and  axes can be found in trial chambers vaults. Golden armor, hoes‌[BE  only] and axes‌[JE  only] can be found in bastion remnant chests. Golden armor, swords and tools can be found in ruined portal chests. Iron armor, swords, pickaxes and shovels can be found in End city chests. Crossbows and iron swords‌[JE  only] can be found in bastion remnant chests. Crossbows can also be found in trial chambers vaults. Leather armor can be found in shipwreck supply chests. Diamond and iron leggings and diamond hoes can be found in ancient city loot chests. Iron axes can be found in trial chambers barrels and vaults.

Efficiency V

Diamond shovels and pickaxes can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests. Diamond hoes can be found in ancient city loot chests.

Frost Walker I-II

Diamond boots can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests. Golden boots can be found in bastion remnant and ruined portal chests. Iron boots can be found in End city chests. Leather boots can be found in shipwreck supply chests.

Mending

Diamond armor, swords, pickaxes and shovels can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests.Iron and diamond chestplates and axes can be found in trial chambers vaults.Golden armor, hoes‌[BE  only] and axes‌[JE  only] can be found in bastion remnant chests. Golden armor, swords and tools can be found in ruined portal chests. Iron armor, swords, pickaxes and shovels can be found in End city chests. Crossbows and iron swords‌[JE  only] can be found in bastion remnant chests. Crossbows can also be found in trial chambers vaults.Leather armor can be found in shipwreck supply chests. Diamond and iron leggings and diamond hoes can be found in ancient city loot chests.Iron axes can be found in trial chambers barrels and vaults.

Sharpness I-IV‌[JE  only]

Golden axes can be found in ruined portal and bastion remnant chests.‌[JE  only] Iron axes can be found in trial chambers barrels.
In Bedrock Edition, axes can renewably receive Sharpness I-IV without gaining prior-work penalty through normal enchanting.

Sharpness V

‌[JE  only]

Diamond swords can be found in End city and bastion remnant chests. Iron swords can be found in End city and bastion remnant ‌[JE  only] chests. Iron axes can be found in trial chambers barrels. Golden axes can be found in ruined portal and bastion remnant‌[JE  only] chests.
In Bedrock Edition, golden axes can renewably receive Sharpness V without gaining prior-work penalty through normal enchanting.

Smite I-V ‌[JE  only]

Golden axes can be found in ruined portal and bastion remnant‌[JE  only] chests. Iron axes can be found in trial chambers barrels.
In Bedrock Edition, axes can renewably receive Smite I-V without gaining prior-work penalty through normal enchanting.

Thorns I-II ‌[JE  only]

Diamond armor can be found in bastion remnant chests. Golden armor can be found in bastion remnant and ruined portal chests.Leather armor can be found in shipwreck supply chests. In Bedrock Edition, helmets, leggings, and boots can renewably receive Thorns I-II without gaining prior-work penalty through normal enchanting.

Thorns III

‌[BE  only]

Diamond armor can be found in bastion remnant chests and diamond chestplates also in End city chests.Golden armor can be found in bastion remnant and ruined portal chests.Iron chestplates with Thorns III can rarely be found in End city chests. Leather armor can be found in shipwreck supply chests.
In Bedrock Edition, iron armor with Thorns III can rarely be found in End city chests.In Java Edition, iron helmets, leggings, and boots with Thorns III and no prior-work penalty are not obtainable in Survival.

Other
These non-renewable resources can be obtained from the world outside generated structures, and are generally more abundant. Since they generate outside structures, they can be found even in worlds with the "Generate Structures" option disabled.

Resource

Non-renewable products

Sources

Ancient Debris

(Any armor with netherite trim)

Generates in ore features in the Nether, especially at low Y-levels.
Ancient debris, netherite scrap and netherite ingots can be found in bastion remnant chests.

Calcite

―

Generates as strips in the stony peaks biome and as the middle layer of amethyst geodes.

Cinnabar

Generates in the sulfur caves biome.

Deepslate

(Any armor with silence or ward trim)

Generates underground below Y=8. Deepslate is obtained by smelting cobbled deepslate, or by mining it using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch. Deepslate variants can also be found in ancient cities. Cobbled deepslate can also be found in trial chambers.
Silence and Ward armor trim smithing templates can be found in ancient city loot chests.

Dead Bush

―

Can be collected with shears in badlands, desert, swamps and old growth spruce taiga biomes. They can also be found buried in trail ruins, in chests, and potted in some desert villages and trial chambers.

Copper Ores

Copper ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Blocks of Raw Copper can generate in copper ore veins. Copper is renewable through the rare drops of drowned.

Iron Ores

Iron ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Blocks of Raw Iron can generate in iron ore veins. Iron is renewable through the drops of iron golems, zombies, by melting down renewable iron armor or tools and via bartering.

Overworld Gold Ores

Gold ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Gold is renewable through the drops of zombified piglin or by melting down renewable gold armor or tools.

Coal Ores

—

Coal ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Coal is renewable through the drops of wither skeletons.

Lapis Lazuli Ores

—

Lapis Lazuli ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Lapis Lazuli is renewable through trading and as a raid gift‌[JE  only].

Redstone Ores

—

Redstone ores generate underground in all biomes of the Overworld. Redstone is renewable as drops from witches, through trading and as a raid gift‌[JE  only].

Emerald Ores

—

Emerald ores generate in mountains and windswept hills biomes. Emeralds are renewable through trading, and as drops from raid mobs and foxes.

Diamond Ores

(With "trail" effect)

(Any armor with any trim)

Generates in ore features in the Overworld, below Y=16. Deepslate diamond ore also generates in fossils.
Diamonds can also be found in chests of many generated structures as well as excavated from suspicious sand generated in desert pyramids. Diamond blocks also generate in "lava" and "obsidian" rooms in woodland mansions.
Unlike diamonds themselves, diamond swords, tools, and armor are renewable using certain top-level villager trades.
Smithing templates can be found in various generated structures, one template of the same type is required to craft duplicates using diamonds. Crafting the netherite upgrade and rib armor trim templates also requires non-renewable netherrack and the ward and silence armor trims require non-renewable cobbled deepslate.

Nether Gold Ore

—

Nether gold ore generates in ore features in the Nether. Gold is renewable through the drops of zombified piglin or by melting down renewable gold armor or tools.

Nether Quartz Ore

—

Nether quartz ore generates in ore features in the Nether. Nether quartz is renewable via bartering.

Spore Blossom

―

Generates in lush caves biomes.

Tuff

Generates in ore features underground.
Chiseled Tuff, Polished Tuff and Tuff Bricks generate as a part of trial chambers.

Not obtainable in Survival
These resources are not obtainable as items in Survival, without the use of mods or glitches. However, they can be encountered as blocks and some even created or manipulated in Survival.

Resource

Notes

Air

Air is completely unobtainable, even if the player is in Creative mode or uses /give.

Bedrock

Bedrock can be found at the bottom 5 levels of the Overworld, the top and bottom 4 levels of the Nether, and as part of End crystal structures and portals in the End, but cannot be broken or moved.

Budding Amethyst

Budding amethyst generates in the innermost layer of amethyst geodes but cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

Chorus Plant

Chorus plants grow from chorus flowers planted on End stone but cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

End Portal Frame

Can be found in strongholds, but cannot be broken or moved.

Farmland

Farmland may be created by tilling renewable dirt, podzol, grass blocks, mycelium , or dirt paths with a hoe, but it always drops dirt when mined.

Frogspawn

Frogspawn may be created by breeding frog using renewable slimeball. One frog then goes to the water to lay the frogspawn, but it cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

Infested Blocks

Infested blocks may be generated infinitely as silverfish infest renewable cobblestone, stone and stone bricks, but do not drop themselves when mined even if Silk Touch is used.
They also generate naturally in strongholds, igloos, woodland mansions and in mountains.

Monster Spawner

Monster spawners can be encountered in monster rooms, mineshafts, strongholds, Nether fortresses, mansions, and bastion remnants, but drop only experience if mined.

Reinforced Deepslate

Reinforced deepslate can be encountered in ancient cities but cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

Tall Seagrass

Unlike tall grass and large fern, tall seagrass is not an item. It has a separate block ID from normal seagrass,‌[Java Edition  only] or is distinguished using a block state.‌[Bedrock Edition  only] Tall seagrass can be created by applying bone meal to normal seagrass, but breaking tall seagrass with shears drops 2 normal seagrass.

Trial Spawners

Trial spawners can be encountered in trial chambers but cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

Vaults

Vaults can be encountered in trial chambers but cannot be obtained when mined even if Silk Touch is used.

Not encountered in Survival
These resources cannot be accessed, even as blocks, without using Creative mode or commands.

Resource

Barrier

Command Blocks

Debug Stick

Jigsaw Block

Light Blocks

Minecart with Command Block

Petrified Oak Slab

Player Heads

Spawn Eggs

Structure Blocks and Structure Voids

Bedrock Edition
These items are non-renewable in Bedrock Edition, and do not exist in Java Edition.

Resource

Notes

Allow, Deny and Border

Not encountered in Survival.

All Elements and Compounds

Not encountered in Survival.

Chemistry Tables

Not encountered in Survival.

Chemistry Products

Not encountered in Survival.

Medicine

Not encountered in Survival.

Potions of Decay

Not encountered in Survival.
Arrows of Decay are renewably obtainable through trading.

Invisible Bedrock

Forms the void floor and the border in Old worlds, but can't be broken or moved.

End Gateway Block

Forms the entity-teleporting part of the End gateway structure, but not renewable even in block form.

Chalkboard

Not encountered in Survival.

Technical Blocks except the blocks listed above

Technical blocks are blocks such as portal blocks and fire, whose main functions are strictly tied to the usage of other blocks and items.

Java Edition
These resources are not renewable in Java Edition, although they are in Bedrock Edition. (Previously mentioned non-renewable resources are removed from the products list).

Resource

Non-renewable products

Reason for discrepancy

Netherrack

(Any armor with rib trim)

When Nether portals generate in the air, they do not create netherrack like they do in Bedrock Edition.
Rib armor trim smithing template can be found in Nether fortress chests, netherite upgrade smithing template can be found in bastion remnant chests. One template of the same type is required to craft duplicates using netherrack and diamonds. Items that need diamonds or netherite to craft remain non-renewable on Bedrock edition, despite the renewability of netherrack.

Dirt Path

―

Dirt paths may be created by right-clicking renewable dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, podzol, farmland, grass blocks, and mycelium with a shovel, but drop dirt when mined. However, in Bedrock Edition, they can be obtained using a tool with Silk Touch.

These items are non-renewable in Java Edition, and do not exist in Bedrock Edition.

Resource

Notes

Knowledge Book

Not encountered in Survival.

Potions of Luck

Not encountered in Survival.

Test Blocks

Not encountered in Survival.

Test Instance Block

Not encountered in Survival.

Uncraftable Potions

Not encountered in Survival.

Peaceful difficulty
These resources are not renewable while playing in peaceful difficulty as their renewable methods of obtaining require the spawning of hostile mobs. (Previously mentioned non-renewable resources are removed from the products list).

Resource

Non-renewable products

Remaining sources

Reason for discrepancy

Coal

Coal can be obtained from coal ore or generated chests.

Wither skeletons do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Copper Ingot



Copper ingots can be obtained by smelting raw copper.
Waxed blocks of copper and waxed cut copper generate as a part of trial chambers.

Drowned do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.
Mobs equipped with copper armor do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Music Discs 13 and cat

―

13 and Cat can be found in monster room, ancient city, and woodland mansion chests.

Neither creepers nor skeletons spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Ominous Banner

8 ominous banners generate in every pillager outpost.

Raid captains do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Ominous Bottle (I and II)

―

Ominous bottles of level I to II can be found in vaults in trial chambers.

Pillager raid captains do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Prismarine Crystals

Prismarine crystals can be found in generated buried treasure chests. Prismarine crystals are obtained from breaking sea lanterns without Silk Touch.Sea lanterns generate in ocean monuments and ocean ruins.

Guardians do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Resin Clump

Can be found in woodland mansion chests.
1-3 resin clumps drop when breaking a creaking heart.
Creaking hearts can be found in naturally generated pale oaks in the pale garden.

Creakings do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty, preventing resin clumps from forming.

Sculk Catalyst

―

Sculk Catalysts can be found in the deep dark biome.

Wardens do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Skeleton Skull

"Creeper-Shaped" Firework Stars & Rockets

Skeleton Skulls generate naturally in ancient cities.

Neither creepers nor skeletons spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Spider Eye

Found in desert pyramid chests.Splash potions of weakness generate in igloos.
A random potion can be found in each swamp hut cauldron.‌[BE  only]

Spiders and witches do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Trial Key

―

Trial keys can be found inside decorated pots and barrels in trial chambers.

Trial keys drop as a reward from trial spawners, which cannot be activated in Peaceful difficulty.

Trident

―

Tridents can be ejected as a reward from vaults opened by trial keys.

Drowned do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

End Stone

If the End is accessible, End stone can be acquired by mining. It is not renewable in Peaceful mode, as producing it by respawning an ender dragon requires End crystals which aren't renewable in Peaceful.

Not obtainable if the End is inaccessible.

Shulker Shell



Dropped by shulkers, which still spawn during End city generation in Peaceful difficulty, but cannot damage the player.

Besides the fact that these resources are not obtainable if the End is inaccessible, shulkers do not shoot shulker bullets in Peaceful difficulty, preventing the generation of more shulkers.

Unavailable in Peaceful difficulty
Some resources in this difficulty may also become unavailable in Survival, as hostile mobs do not spawn. (Previously mentioned non-renewable or unobtainable resources are removed from the products list).
Going to the End almost always requires the use of eyes of ender, which are unobtainable in Peaceful difficulty, to activate the End portal, with the chances of requiring none being only 1 in a trillion for each End portal. Therefore, resources exclusive to the End can also be considered unobtainable in Peaceful difficulty.

Resource

Non-renewable or Unobtainable products

Remaining sources

Reason for discrepancy

Blaze Rod

 (non-tradable arrows)

Brewing stands generate in igloo basements and village temples. Magma blocks generate in water aquifers, ruined portals, ocean ruins, and the Nether. Magma cream generates in the chests of some bastion remnants. If the End is accessible, End rods, brewing stands, and ender chests generate in End cities.
Potions of Invisibility (both normal and extended) can be renewably obtained by killing or trading with wandering traders.
Potions of Water Breathing can be found in buried treasure. Potions of Regeneration can be found in ancient cities. Splash potions of Weakness always generate in brewing stands in igloo basements. If the End is accessible, two potions of Healing II generate in End cities.
In Bedrock Edition, swamp hut cauldrons can generate with potions of Healing, Poison, Swiftness, Slowness, Strength, Weakness, Water Breathing, or Fire Resistance.
All other potions (excluding water bottles, which are renewable) are unobtainable.
Copper bulbs generate as part of trial chambers.

Blazes do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Breeze Rod

(Any armor with flow trim)

Wind charges can be found in chests and vaults in trial chambers.
Flow armor trim smithing templates are obtained from ominous vaults, which cannot be opened in Peaceful.

Breezes do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Dragon's Breath

 (non-tradable arrows)

―

The ender dragon does not shoot dragon fireballs in Peaceful difficulty, preventing their collection.

Froglight

―

―

Magma cubes do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Ghast Tear

Potions of Regeneration can be found in ancient cities.
If the End is accessible, ten End crystals generate when the player first enters the End. However, players cannot gain End crystals as an item in Peaceful difficulty, resulting End crystals non-renewable.

Ghasts do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Mob Heads and Skulls

 Creeper Charge and Skull Charge Banner Patterns
"Creeper-Shaped" Firework Stars & Rockets

―

Creepers, zombies, and wither skeletons cannot spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Music Discs blocks, chirp, far, mall, mellohi, stal, strad, wait, ward, and 11

―

―

Neither creepers nor skeletons spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Music Disc Lava Chicken

―

―

Zombies do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Music Disc Tears

―

―

Ghasts do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Ominous Bottle (III to V)

―

―

Pillager raid captains do not spawn and ominous trial keys cannot be obtained in Peaceful difficulty.

Ominous Trial Key

―

―

Ominous trial keys drop as a reward from ominous trial spawners, which cannot be activated in Peaceful difficulty.

Prismarine Shard

(Any armor with tide trim)

Prismarine, prismarine bricks, and sea lanterns are generated in ocean monument, and prismarine and sea lanterns are also generated in ocean ruins.
Tide armor trim smithing templates are obtained from elder guardians, which cannot spawn on Peaceful.

Guardians do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty.

Totem of Undying

―

―

Raids do not occur in Peaceful difficulty. Totems of undying are also not renewable in Easy difficulty since raids do not last long enough to spawn evokers.

Notes

 Due to being available from vaults or ominous vaults, this resource and any products that do not require other non-renewable materials are renewable in non-peaceful worlds with at least 129 players. In worlds with fewer players or in peaceful worlds, they remain non-renewable.

 This resource is renewable as a block, but not as an item in inventory.

 Re-summoning the ender dragon must initiate when a player places any End crystal. Players cannot re-summon the ender dragon and cannot renew End crystals if there is no End crystal as an item.

References

 MC-77787 – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 MC-143151 – resolved as "Won't Fix".

Navigation