This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Models are used for defining the fundamental geometry for the vast majority of blocks in the game. Some blocks have additional visual data associated with them which are effectively fixed in nature; while their textures can often be modified, their geometry, positioning and fundamental presence usually cannot be.

Contents

1 Render models, but have additional graphics
2 Do not render model elements
3 History

3.1 April Fools' exclusive blocks

4 References

Render models, but have additional graphics

Blocks

Relevant element

Render

Chest
Trapped Chest
Ender Chest
Copper Chest
Exposed Copper Chest
Weathered Copper Chest
Oxidized Copper Chest
Waxed Copper Chest
Waxed Exposed Copper Chest
Waxed Weathered Copper Chest
Waxed Oxidized Copper Chest

Entire block

Copper Golem Statue
Exposed Copper Golem Statue
Weathered Copper Golem Statue
Oxidized Copper Golem Statue
Waxed Copper Golem Statue
Waxed Exposed Copper Golem Statue
Waxed Weathered Copper Golem Statue
Waxed Oxidized Copper Golem Statue

Entire block

Shulker Box
Dyed Shulker Box, all 16 colours

Entire block

Banner, all 16 colours

Entire block

Wall Banner, all 16 colours

Entire block

Conduit

Entire block

Decorated Pot

Entire block

Zombie Head
Creeper Head
Skeleton Skull
Wither Skeleton Skull
Player Head
Dragon Head
Piglin Head

Entire block

Zombie Wall Head
Creeper Wall Head
Skeleton Wall Skull
Wither Skeleton Wall Skull
Player Wall Head
Dragon Wall Head
Piglin Wall Head

Entire block

Oak Sign
Birch Sign
Spruce Sign
Jungle Sign
Acacia Sign
Dark Oak Sign
Mangrove Sign
Cherry Sign
Pale Oak Sign
Bamboo Sign
Crimson Sign
Warped Sign

Text

Oak Wall Sign
Birch Wall Sign
Spruce Wall Sign
Jungle Wall Sign
Acacia Wall Sign
Dark Oak Wall Sign
Mangrove Wall Sign
Cherry Wall Sign
Pale Oak Wall Sign
Bamboo Wall Sign
Crimson Wall Sign
Warped Wall Sign

Text

Oak Hanging Sign
Birch Hanging Sign
Spruce Hanging Sign
Jungle Hanging Sign
Acacia Hanging Sign
Dark Oak Hanging Sign
Mangrove Hanging Sign
Cherry Hanging Sign
Pale Oak Hanging Sign
Bamboo Hanging Sign
Crimson Hanging Sign
Warped Hanging Sign

Text

Oak Wall Hanging Sign
Birch Wall Hanging Sign
Spruce Wall Hanging Sign
Jungle Wall Hanging Sign
Acacia Wall Hanging Sign
Dark Oak Wall Hanging Sign
Mangrove Wall Hanging Sign
Cherry Wall Hanging Sign
Pale Oak Wall Hanging Sign
Bamboo Wall Hanging Sign
Crimson Wall Hanging Sign
Warped Wall Hanging Sign

Text

Beacon, when active
Test Instance Block, when in use

Beam

Bell

Bell itself

Enchanting Table

Book

Lectern

Book

Monster Spawner
Trial Spawner

Entity inside

Vault

Items inside

Oak Shelf
Birch Shelf
Spruce Shelf
Jungle Shelf
Acacia Shelf
Dark Oak Shelf
Mangrove Shelf
Cherry Shelf
Pale Oak Shelf
Bamboo Shelf
Crimson Shelf
Warped Shelf

Items inside

Campfire
Soul Campfire

Items placed

Suspicious Sand
Suspicious Gravel

Item during extraction

Do not render model elements

Block

Reason

Air
Cave Air
Void Air
Barrier
Light
Structure Void

The block is hardcoded to be invisible. Despite having empty physical model data, defining such a model does not change it.

Moving Piston

This is a highly technical block which is only used in specific circumstances, with its own special rendering method.

End Gateway
End Portal

These blocks display a starfield which is completely separate from models. Unlike other block entities, a block model specified with these IDs will not render.

Lava
Water

Fluid rendering is hardcoded and their handling differs significantly from blocks. Defining a model will change the associated particles, but will add no geometry.

Bubble Column

This is intended to render mostly as water and uses particles, however custom models still do not render planes within it, unlike in Bedrock Edition.

History



This section is missing information about: when each block's model could be changed in 1.8, even though only particles were affected (note: despite the fact that not all blocks became remodellable at once, not being able to change a block's model in a given version does not qualify it for this page). to test:
sign (not in 1.8)
wall sign (not in 1.8)
chest (not in 1.8)
trapped chest (not in 1.8)
ender chest (not in 1.8)
skull (not in 1.8)
moving piston
maybe banners i guess 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Java Edition InfdevMinecraft Infdev20100607
Standing signs have been added as a block, using the previous texture file used for sign entities.20100625-1917
Spawners have been added; an entity is rendered within to indicate what is spawned.Java Edition Alphav1.0.1
Wall signs have been added, also rendering as an entity rather than as part of the main block mesh.v1.1.0
Spawners no longer contain a miniature model of the mob that is to be spawned.Java Edition Beta1.2
Spawners once again contain a miniature model of the mob that is to be spawned.1.8Pre-release
Chests now render as entities; prior to this version they were part of the block mesh like other blocks. This change has been instituted to accommodate the new opening animation.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
 Enchanting tables have been added; the main body of the table is rendered as part of the chunk mesh, but the rotating, openable book renders as an entity.

 End portals have been added, which render a section of starfield. A normal untinted grass block texture plane exists on the underside, implying that the block can use normal geometry at this point, unlike in later versions.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
End portals have been changed; the starfield now renders two pixels lower. The excess plane on the bottom has been removed. It is not known whether there was an internal change in this version to force this block ID to not render chunk geometry even if it tried, or if such a change was made later (presumably in 1.13-pre3 or an earlier version).1.3.112w21a
Ender chests have been implemented, using the same rendering system as chests.1.4.212w32a
 Beacons have been added, whose beams are rendered separately from the block mesh.12w36a
Five types of heads (zombie head, creeper head, skeleton skull, wither skeleton skull, creeper head) have been added, which render as entities.

 A bonus object is now rendered inside of beacons, resembling the end crystal.12w38a
 The beacon's beam is now a 3D object, unlike previously, where it rendered as a series of translucent rectangles.

 The object added to placed beacon blocks in 12w36a has been removed.12w40a
 The beacon's beam geometry has been changed, alongside the assigned texture.1.513w01a
Trapped chests have been implemented, using the same rendering system as chests and ender chests.1.814w30a
Banners have been added, which render as entities.1.915w31a
Dragon heads have been added, which render as entities.

End gateways have been added, which also use a starfield, much like end portals.1.1116w39a
16 distinct types of shulker box have been added, which render as entities.1.1217w15a
Beds now render as entities; prior to this version they were part of the block mesh like other blocks. This change has been instituted to accommodate the alternate colors in a way that would not exceed the block ID limit, however this system considerably outlasted the circumstances requiring it.1.1318w10b
A seventeenth shulker box variant has been implemented, which uses much the same rendering system.18w15a
Conduits have been added, which render as entities.pre3
It is now possible to assign models to end portal and end gateway blocks through the blockstates system, however these will still only be used for particles and will not render any quads as would be done for other block IDs.1.1418w43a
Birch, spruce, jungle, acacia and dark oak signs, alongside their wall variants, have been implemented, using the same rendering system as oak signs and oak wall signs.18w50a
 Bells, specifically the bell itself, now render as entities due to the introduction of a swinging animation. The stand they hang from remains customizable through the usual block model system.19w02a
 Lecterns may now hold books; the same model is used as with the enchanting table with different behaviour.

 Campfires have been added; the four slots for items render independently of the block model of the campfire itself.19w03a
 Campfire item positioning has changed.1.1519w39a
Each half of a large chest renders the whole large chest. In practice, this means that a large chest is comprised of two identical, overlapping large chest models. Previously, rendering large chests was entirely handled by the "right" block state, which represents the left half of a given large chest, and the "left" block state, which represents the right half of a given large chest, was completely invisible.19w41a
 The beacon beam geometry has changed once again, removing inner faces.19w42a
Each half of a large chest now only renders that half.1.1620w06a
Crimson and warped signs, alongside their wall variants, have been implemented, using the same rendering system as preceding such signs.20w15a
Soul campfires have been added, which use an identical system to campfires for rendering items.October 3, 2020
 It seems likely that sculk sensor tendrils were separate from the model at this point in development, as they moved in a way impossible via standard texture animation and were absent from the item form.November 13, 2020
Sculk sensor tendrils appear to now be part of the model geometry itself, rather than separate, matching the form of the block that was ultimately implemented.1.1922w11a
Mangrove signs and mangrove wall have been implemented, using the same rendering system as preceding such signs.1.19.322w42a
Ten variants of hanging sign have been added (oak, birch, spruce, jungle, acacia, dark oak, mangrove, bamboo, crimson, warped), which can either be placed on the ceiling or wall, resulting in 20 distinct block IDs; in either case, all of these render as entities as typical signs do.

Bamboo signs and bamboo wall have been implemented, using the same rendering system as preceding such signs.22w46a
Piglin heads have been added, which render as entities.1.19.423w07a
Decorated pots have been added, which render as entities.

Suspicious sand and suspicious gravel have been added; the item that emerges during brushing is rendered independently of the block model of the block itself.

Cherry signs and cherry hanging signs, alongside their wall variants, have been implemented, using the same rendering system as preceding such signs.1.20.323w45a
Trial spawners have been added; much like regular spawners, a miniaturised version of the output mob is displayed within.1.20.524w13a
Vaults have been added; much like spawners, a miniaturised version of the potential output item pool is displayed within.1.21.224w40a
Pale oak signs and pale oak hanging signs, alongside their wall variants, have been implemented, using the same rendering system as preceding such signs.1.21.424w46a
Many block entities will now render block model elements if assigned them, rather than rendering nothing at all but the entity and only using the model for defining the particles.

For unknown reasons, end portal and end gateway blocks, as well as moving piston blocks, were not given this treatment and continue to ignore custom model geometry.1.21.525w03a
 Test instance blocks have been added, which emit beacon-like beams.1.21.925w31a
Copper golem statues have been added, which render as entities.

Copper chests have been implemented, using the same rendering system as chests, ender chests and trapped chests.

 Shelves have been added; the three slots for items render independently of the block model of the shelf itself. The items are centered vertically.25w32a
 Items on shelves have been moved downward.25w33a
Items on shelves can be configured to be either vertically centered or shifted downward.26.2snap3
Beds now use block models fully rather than only for particles, changing them from  to .snap7
Signs of all types now use block models for their main body, such that only the text is rendered specially.

Standing signs have been changed from  to .

Wall signs have been changed from  to .

Hanging signs have been changed from  to .

Wall hanging signs have been changed from  to .
April Fools' exclusive blocks



This section is missing information about:
use magenta dummy cube:
Potato Sign
Potato Wall Sign
Potato Hanging Sign
Potato Wall Hanging Sign
to test:
How did we get here? (block)
Golden Chest
uses the assigned model but renders it differently - unsure if this should be included or not:
Mine Travelling Block 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

References

 MC-270987

 MC-279011

 MC-308377

 MC-308413

 https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w46a

 MC-279011