"Test" redirects here.  For other uses, see Test (disambiguation).
 "Gametest" redirects here.  For the command, see Commands/gametest.
GameTest is an automated end-to-end (E2E) testing framework for testing aspects of Minecraft. Each test contains a structure, parameters for how the test gets executed, and optional code to further specify the test behavior.

Contents

1 Java Edition

1.1 Test instance

1.1.1 Block-based
1.1.2 Function

1.2 Test environment
1.3 Test command
1.4 Server.jar entry point

1.4.1 Command-line options
1.4.2 Exit code

2 Bedrock Edition
3 History

3.1 Demonstration
3.2 Java Edition
3.3 Bedrock Edition

4 References
5 Navigation

Java Edition
Test instance
UI of test instance block
Test instance can be defined in a datapack by creating a JSON file in the test_instance registry. Players can inspect information about them using a test instance block. A test instance has the following properties:

It belongs to a test environment, which groups the test and further specifies the environment in which the test is run in. ([NBT Compound / JSON Object][String] environment)
It is associated with a [String] structure, which should contain all the blocks and entities it needs to be run. The structure can be easily altered with the test instance block.
It can either be a block-based test or a function test. More information is available below.
There are more configuration available for test instances. For more information on the format, see test instance definition.

Block-based
In block-based tests, Test blocks are used inside the test structure to control the test logic using redstone signal.

 Start: A redstone pulse is triggered when the test starts.
 Log: Logs a message to the log file when powered by redstone.
 Fail: Fails the test when powered by redstone.
 Accept: Completes the test when powered by redstone.
If a race condition occurs, the first test block activated always wins.

Function
Function tests rely on built-in test functions to determine a test's success or failure. They are meant to be used by Mojang internally and by mod developers.
The game provides the GameTest framework interfaces through the net.minecraft.gametest.framework package (Mojang mapping). Mod loaders typically provide their own testing API for developers to use the GameTest framework, there are documentation available for Fabric and NeoForge.
A test function must be registered in the test_function registry to be referenced in the test instance. The [String] function field in the test instance definition should contain the resource location of the test function.

Test environment
Main article: Test environment definition
Test environment is a way to group up test instances and give them the right preconditions to run. It can be defined in a datapack by either creating a JSON file in the test_instance registry or directly specified the environment inline with the [NBT Compound / JSON Object] batch field. It can also use the test environment of the vanilla data package minecraft:default, which is empty preconditions.

Test command
Main article: Commands/test
The /test command exists to execute and manage block-based tests. Some notable sub-commands include:

/test (run|runmultiple) <tests> ... sub-commands can run specific test(s) for a number of times by their identifier.
/test (runclosest|runthat|runthese) ... sub-commands can run test(s) based on the player's location.
/test (resetclosest|resetthat|resetthese) sub-commands reset the test structures for any tests.
/test locate <tests> locates test in loaded chunks.
Server.jar entry point
The net.minecraft.gametest.Main entry point is included in server.jar which starts a server, runs all available game tests and then exits. It can be invoked in the command line, such as:

java -DbundlerMainClass="net.minecraft.gametest.Main" -jar server.jar [<options>]

Command-line options
--help - Shows usage information
--packs <path> - Set a folder of datapacks to include in the world
Any zip file or folder with a pack.mcmeta file is included
--report <path> - Exports results in a junit-like XML report at the given path
--tests <selection> - Specify which tests to run with a selection - a wildcard expression matching namespace test instance IDs
If omitted, or used with an empty ID, runs all tests
--universe <path> - The path to where the test server world will be created
Any existing folder will be replaced
Default: gametestserver
--verify <boolean> - Enables test verification
Runs the tests specified with test or testNamespace 100 times for each 90 degree rotation step
Default: false
Exit code
The game will yield the following exit codes depending on the scenario:

Scenario
Exit code

All tests pass
0

Any test fails
(number of failures)

Server shut down without starting tests
-1

Game crashed
1

Bedrock Edition
The GameTest framework can be accessed through the @minecraft/server-gametest module from the Script API. The module must be added as a dependency in the manifest.json. It contains many programming interfaces used for automated testing of any game objects' behaviors and interactions in a controlled testing environment. Developers can use these interfaces for:

Asserting certain conditions for blocks, entities, and other game objects;
Getting in-game information such as dimension, position, entities and blocks information;
Modifying the testing environment by setting block permutation (block type and states data), sending redstone interactions, etc;
Spawning entities controlled by the script with predictable mob behaviors;
Creating simulated players for testing behaviors and interactions with other game objects;
And other testing functionalities, further reading.
A testing environment can be created from a unit test (also called a GameTest), which contains a test function registered from the script, and a reference to a .mcstructure file exists in the behavior pack. Users can register a new unit test using GameTest#register(testClassName, testName, testFunction) method with additional builder parameters, such as .maxTicks(ticks) that indicates the test may take amount of ticks to run, .maxAttempts(attempts) which specifies how many attempt the test can run, and more.
After the unit test is registered, it is loaded in the world, and can be run using the /gametest command, referenced by <testClassName>:<testName>. When ran, the game spawns the test structure and calls the test function previously defined in the script. The unit test may succeed or fail depending on the test function, which usually contain instructions for testing behaviors and interactions in the testing environment.

History
Demonstration
November 9, 2020
Henrik Kniberg demonstrated GameTest, a test framework used internally by Mojang, on the Agile with Jimmy YouTube channel.
Java Edition
Java Edition1.1519w34a
References to GameTest added in the game's code. Most of the framework is stripped, since the rest of the game does not depend on it.1.1721w13a
GameTest related code is now exposed for mod developers' use because unused parts of code are no longer removed.1.21.525w03a
Overhauled the GameTest framework.
Introduced for use with data packs.1.21.1125w44a
In the game_rules test environment the keys bool_rule and int_rule have been replaced with a single key rules.26.1snap3
Replaced time_of_day with clock_time.
Added a new required field clock: world clock ID, the clock within which to set time (from the existing time field).snap11
Added timeline_attributes definitions to set any number of timelines.26.2snap5
Added minecraft:difficulty.
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.16.210beta 1.16.210.60
Added GameTest framework.
References

 "Test Class"     – Microsoft Learn, February 10, 2025.

 "SimulatedPlayer Class"     – Microsoft Learn, February 10, 2025.

 "Building your first GameTest"     – Microsoft Learn, June 20, 2024.

 "RegistrationBuilder Class"     – Microsoft Learn, February 22, 2025.

Navigation