This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 

Glide mini game logo
Glide is a mini game where players maneuver through a track while wearing elytra, aiming to finish in the fastest time or score the most points by flying through colored rings. Glide was added to the Legacy Console Edition on March 28, 2017 (March 29, 2017 for Wii U Edition).

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Solo

2 Tracks

2.1 DLC

3 Score Rings
4 Music
5 Medals
6 Trailer
7 History
8 Trivia
9 Gallery

9.1 Official images

10 References
11 Navigation

Description
Gameplay of the Glide mini game.
Glide features two different game modes:

Time attack - Players compete to finish a track in the fastest time.
Score attack - Players compete to score the highest number of points by flying through colored rings placed along the track. Green rings give 3 points, yellow rings give 5 points and blue rings give 7 points.
A Glide match is divided into three rounds, where a player with the fastest time or highest score from any round is the victor. Each map has checkpoints with two beacon beams. The player has 3 hearts of health. When losing all 3 hearts of health you die. Hitting a wall causes you to lose one heart of health and landing on the ground causes you to die immediately. Upon death the player respawns at the last checkpoint after a few seconds and can continue playing. Up to 16 players can join a single game on Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition, 8 players on Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, Wii U Edition, and Nintendo Switch Edition, and 4 players on PlayStation Vita Edition.

Solo
The Ghost, featured in Glide.
Both Time Attack and Score Attack can also be played in solo mode. When enabled, only one player is required to start the match. Online play is unavailable but multi-player play is possible using a split screen. A match is also divided into one round instead of three. A solo player can press a button to restart the entire game and you can press a different button to teleport back to the last checkpoint. The player's best run in Glide is also recorded (as long as it is under 5 minutes) and a ghost flies alongside to help the player improve.

Tracks
Similar to Battle, every DLC Glide track is absent from the Nintendo Switch Edition, even though all other versions, including the Wii U Edition, have these tracks as purchasable DLC. This is currently still the case, where Cavern, Temple, and Canyon are the only playable tracks on the Nintendo Switch Edition.
The current available Glide maps are as follows, with the Nintendo Switch Edition having access only to Cavern, Temple, and Canyon:

Name

Applied textures

Description

Cavern
Default
"Fly through the ancient catacombs of the Cavern!"

Temple
Default
"Dive deep into the jungle and discover the secrets of the Temple."

Yeti
Default
"Swoop down the icy glacier and between the bones of giants to discover the lost land of the Yeti."

Kraken
Default
"Plunge past the pirates' wrecks to find forgotten treasures. But beware: the Kraken awaits!"

Dragon
Chinese Mythology
"Share the skies with Dragons, soaring above the epic landscape of this Chinese Mythology-inspired track."

Shrunk
Plastic
"Are you tiny or is everything else just really, really big? Be careful not to lose your sense of proportion as you glide your way through this oversized house and tidy up the competition."

Body
Default
"A junk food junkyard! A vessel of viruses! A flotilla of phlegm! Grit your teeth for a slimy fight on this unhealthy trip through the human body."

Mobs
Default
"Swoop over, around, and beneath the mighty, monolithic mobs that dominate the skyline of this out-of-scale track."

Canyon
Default
"Soar through the Canyon's windswept strata, winding round stone arches and frontier railways, on this Wild West express to reach ancestral lands."

Excalibur
Fantasy
"Castles and dragons tower over this fantasy Glide track. It'll take flying skills of some (ex)caliber to get you to the end of this Arthurian legend."

Icarus
Greek Mythology
"Swoop down the slopes of Mount Olympus, twist through the labyrinth's many turns and hurdle into Hades. Remember to pay the ferryman for safe passage!"

Celts
Default
"Slalom through Standing Stones and marvel at mighty beasts, as you traverse a track inspired by Europe's mystic past."

DLC
The following DLC packs were released for Glide. They are not available for Nintendo Switch Edition:

Glide Track Pack Season Pass – Grants access to Glide Track Packs 1-3, and the Mini Game Heroes Skin Pack.
Glide Beasts Track Pack – Contains Dragon, Kraken, and Yeti.
Glide Giants Track Pack – Contains Body, Mobs, and Shrunk.
Glide Myths Track Pack – Contains Celts, Excalibur, and Icarus.
Score Rings
Main article: Score Ring
The Glide mini game features a block-like object called the Score Ring, which comes in green, yellow and blue variants. These are used for the rings that players fly through.



			Emerald Score Ring



			Gold Score Ring



			Diamond Score Ring


Music
Main article: Minecraft: Glide Mini Game (Original Soundtrack)
A soundtrack featuring the music from the Glide mini game by Gareth Coker was released on December 22, 2020.



			Glide Mini Game album cover


The track "Glide" is featured in a rearranged version in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

Medals



This section is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Icon

Name

Description

Trailer





History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU51CU411.441.441.44Patch 201.0.3
Added Glide mini game.TU52CU421.471.481.47Patch 21
Added Glide Beasts Track Pack which includes the tracks "Dragon", "Kraken" and "Yeti".1.0.3
Added colored particles when the player crosses the finish line.TU53CU431.491.501.49Patch 23
Added "Temple," a free Glide track.
The player's best run in Glide is now recorded (as long as it is under 5 minutes) and a ghost flies alongside them in Solo Mode to help them improve.
The death screen in the Glide mini game now displays "You Crashed" instead of "You Died!".TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 24
Added Glide Giants Track Pack which includes the tracks "Body", "Mobs" and "Shrunk".TU56CU471.551.551.55Patch 261.0.6
Added "Canyon," a free Glide track.TU57CU491.571.561.56Patch 27
Added Glide Myths Track Pack which includes the tracks "Icarus", "Excalibur" and "Celts".
Trivia
When completing a course in Glide, pressing and holding jump while in water delays the player from being transported into spectator mode.
Due to an oversight or bug, the default music definitions for Glide is set to only play MG03_Vanilla_Map1Track1 ("Glide (Map 1)"). As such, Glide courses with an invalid ThemeID and not using a texture pack with custom music will only play that track.
Gallery



			Glide Mini Game key art























			Glide Mini Game icon


Official images














































References

 "Glide Mini Game on Consoles Tomorrow"     by Marsh Davies  – Minecraft.net, March 27, 2017.

 "Super Smash Bros. Ultimate – Mr. Sakurai Presents "Steve & Alex""  – Nintendo on YouTube, October 3, 2020

Navigation