This page only covers Go-Gurt's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Go-Gurt, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Several of the tubes available in the package, featuring bees, Alex, a creeper, and an ocelot.
Minecraft Go-Gurt is a licensed product featuring Minecraft and the yogurt brand Go-Gurt, an on-the-go style children's low-fat yogurt snack. Available in three flavors, the Go-Gurt is designed to be sucked out from a plastic pouch.

Contents

1 Products
2 Gallery

2.1 Strawberry & Vanilla
2.2 Berry & Strawberry
2.3 Promotional Images

3 References
4 See also
5 Navigation

Products

Image

Name

Price

Count

Site description

Ref.

Strawberry & Vanilla

$6.99 USD

20

Enjoy fun and delicious taste adventures with Go-GURT Minecraft Strawberry Redstone and Vanilla Quartz Kids Fat Free Yogurt Tubes. The easy to open kids yogurt tubes are a convenient on the go snack or part of an easy gluten free breakfast. Kids can interact with the world of Minecraft by coloring and building the Minecraft Character inside the box - 4 to collect. Pack frozen for school lunch box snacks. Portioned in two ounce yogurt tubes, this yogurt variety pack contains 10 Strawberry Redstone and 10 Vanilla Quartz yogurt individual snacks. Yoplait Go-GURT is a snack made with live and active yogurt cultures. Each kids yogurt tube contains no high fructose corn syrup and no colors from artificial sources. Every serving contains vitamins A and D and is a good source of calcium. Store in the refrigerator and keep cold until you're ready to enjoy. For best product quality, do not refreeze after thawing. Yoplait brings goodness to everyday moments, one serving of yum at a time.

Berry & Strawberry

$6.98 USD

24

Enjoy fun and delicious taste adventures with Go-GURT Minecraft Strawberry Redstone and Lapis Berry Kids Fat Free Yogurt Tubes. The easy to open kids yogurt tubes are a convenient on the go snack or part of an easy gluten free breakfast. Kids can interact with the world of Minecraft by coloring and building the Minecraft Character inside the box - 4 to collect. Pack frozen for school lunch box snacks. Portioned in two ounce yogurt tubes, this yogurt variety pack contains 12 Strawberry Redstone and 12 Lapis Berry yogurt individual snacks. Yoplait Go-GURT is a snack made with live and active yogurt cultures. Each kids yogurt tube contains no high fructose corn syrup and no colors from artificial sources. Every serving contains vitamins A and D and is a good source of calcium. Store in the refrigerator and keep cold until you're ready to enjoy. For best product quality, do not refreeze after thawing. Yoplait brings goodness to everyday moments, one serving of yum at a time.

Gallery
Strawberry & Vanilla



			Alternate box design.



			Ditto.


Berry & Strawberry



			Alternate box design.


Promotional Images



			Image of the Minecraft Go-Gurt with a Disney Go-Gurt.



			A Go-Gurt tube being frozen for later use.



			A paper creeper included with the Go-Gurt.



			Children enjoying Go-Gurt.



			Several generic Yoplait products.



			A boy creating a pig.


References

 "Strawberry & Vanilla"     – yoplait.com.

 "Yoplait Go-Gurt Strawberry/Vanilla Fat Free Kids' Yogurt - 40oz/20ct"     – target.com.

 "Berry & Strawberry"     – yoplait.com.

 "Go-GURT Minecraft Kids Fat Free Yogurt Variety Pack, 2 oz Yogurt Tubes (24 Count)"     – walmart.com.

See also
Randy Peters Minecraft advertisements, a series of commercials which promote the collaboration
Navigation