This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Good Game

Map maker(s)

Cleverlike Studios

Price

Free

Release date

February 5, 2024

Tags

Bows
Choices Matter
Competition
Cooperation
Free
Fast Paced
Gaming
Gamer

Website page

Good Game in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Good Game",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Cleverlike Studios article, displayed as Cleverlike Studios)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "February 5, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to Bow article, displayed as Bows)\n* Choices Matter\n* Competition\n* Cooperation\n* Free\n* Fast Paced\n* Gaming\n* Gamer",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp/minecraft/good-game/fb04f773-ae2e-4528-bbd9-41b71d6c9e58 Good Game in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Good Game (known as CyberSafe: Good Game in Minecraft Education) is a Minecraft Education map designed to teach the necessary responsibilities, tools, responses, and strategies to foster digital well-being. It can also be played through the Marketplace.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Intro
1.2 Chores
1.3 First game
1.4 Spam
1.5 Griefing
1.6 Hacking
1.7 Determined by previous game
1.8 Swearing
1.9 Outro

2 Quotes
3 Videos
4 History

4.1 Bedrock Edition
4.2 Minecraft Education

5 Gallery

5.1 Official artwork
5.2 Promotional images

6 References
7 Navigation

Summary
Intro
The player starts with a "Cursor" item in their inventory. They are asked to choose between four avatars. The player should throw the "Cursor" item like a splash potion at the desired avatar.
A cutscene can then be seen of the player and their friends exiting from a school bus. Brett claims that they have a broken controller and cannot play, all because they lost a game due to cheaters and threw the controller all over the room. Therefore, the friends plan on making a Good Game Guide.

Chores
The player will then be asked to open a gift from their aunt, get the trash bag, and feed the dog. After doing so, the player and their "family" will then eat together.
After than, the player will work on their Good Game Guide. The book and quill in which you can write the guide is located upstairs in their bedroom. They will write in the Good Game Guide about what to do before playing. There is a character resembling the guide that can give an example for what to write. The player is warned not to sign the book until the end of the game, as it will not be editable after that.

First game
When the player starts Bloon Pop, they will be paired up with Cristina and Rowyn, plus a stranger as Brett can't play. Then, each teammate will be given a bow and some arrows. The player and their team should aim the arrows at the opposing team's balloons to win.

Spam
In the second game, "Bloontastic" keeps spamming messages. The pause button is introduced, and the player is prompted to either click "report" or "mute". In this scenario, the mute option is correct. Then, the player will have to choose "Bloontastic" in the menu. Therefore, the messages from Bloontastic will not be displayed anymore. After the game, the player will be prompted to add to the guide about spamming.

Griefing
The next game is not going well either; a teammate is shooting the team's balloons. When one of the player's friends explain that they are supposed to pop the blue balloons, the griefer explains that he is doing it on purpose and brags about them losing. The player will then have to click the pause button to pause the game and click report. When the report button is pressed, they will be asked for a reason. When they click the wrong reason, the game claims that their AI has not detected a problem based off of the reason. After the game, they will be asked to add to the guide about griefing.

Hacking
The next teammate has an awesome new skin, but not in Bloon Pop's skin library. Cristina asks how he has the new skin, and then the stranger claims that he used a hack pack. After seeing the quick arrow shots, the hacker is asked by Cristina if the hack pack also affects the game performance. However, the hacker claims that the hack pack makes it so that the arrows can quickly be shot. Then, Cristina asks the player whether to report them or not. She explains that without him, the team would not have the powerful ability to quickly shoot arrows, but it would be fair. After the game, the player will be prompted to add to the guide about hacking.

Determined by previous game
The team they are playing against has the same hack pack as before if the player did not report the hacker in the last game. Otherwise, it would be a normal game. After the game, more thoughts may be added.
This game is meant to teach people a lesson.

Swearing
The next teammate has a gamertag containing a swear word. However, it is censored. The report button will then need to be used again. After the game, the player may add their final ideas to the Good Game Guide and then click Sign.

Outro
The player will give Brett a spare controller so that he can play, plus the guide. Then, the character can download a certificate and their Good Game Guide.

Quotes
“Every game can be a Good Game! Join a thrilling adventure, where you're the hero leading your team to victory in Minecraft Cyber Safe: Good Game. Along the way, create a code of conduct, practice digital citizenship, and ensure everyone feels welcome on the team. Face exciting challenges, foster teamwork, and turn the online World into a fun, inclusive playground for all!„ — Marketplace description
Videos





History
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock EditionFebruary 5, 2024
Good Game is added to the Marketplace.
Minecraft Education
Minecraft EducationFebruary 5, 2024[verify]
CyberSafe: Good Game is released.January 27, 2026
CyberSafe: Good Game is updated.
Gallery



			Pack icon.


Official artwork














Promotional images



			The Good Game Guide NPC next to a computer



			The player's father playing CyberSafe: Home Sweet Hmm



			The player and their friends getting out of a school bus



			Back view of Bloon Pop



			The pause menu for Bloon Pop


References

 "Cyber Safe: Good Game"     by Minecraft Education  – education.minecraft.net, February 5, 2024.

Navigation