For other uses, see Grass.

Grass Block








Java Edition

Bedrock Edition

Without snow in Java Edition

Without snow in Bedrock Edition


View all renders

Renewable

Yes

Stackable

Yes (64)

Tool

Blast resistance

0.6

Hardness

0.6

Luminous

No

Transparent

No

Flammable

No

Catches firefrom lava

No

Map color

JE:  7 PLANTBE:  (Grass tint)

Note block instrument

Default (Harp)

Sulfur cube archetype

Regular

{
    "extratext": "[[#Color|View all renders]]",
    "title": "Grass Block",
    "images": [
        "Grass Block.png",
        "Snowy Grass Block.png",
        "Snowy Grass Block JE3 BE3.png",
        "Snowy Grass Block (without snow).png",
        "Snowy Grass Block (without snow) BE1.png"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Yes",
            "label": "(link to Renewable resource article, displayed as Renewable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Yes (64)",
            "label": "Stackable"
        },
        {
            "field": "<span class=\"sprite-file\" style=\"height:32px;width:32px;--vertical-align:middle\">(link to File:SlotSprite Shovel Required.png article, displayed as 32x32px|link=|alt=SlotSprite Shovel Required.png: Sprite image for Shovel Required in Minecraft|class=pixel-image|)</span>",
            "label": "Tool"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.6",
            "label": "(link to Explosion#Blast resistance article, displayed as Blast resistance)"
        },
        {
            "field": "0.6",
            "label": "(link to Breaking#Blocks by hardness article, displayed as Hardness)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Light article, displayed as Luminous)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Opacity article, displayed as Transparent)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "(link to Fire#Flammable blocks article, displayed as Flammable)"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "Catches fire<br>from (link to lava article, displayed as lava)"
        },
        {
            "field": "'''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as JE):''' <span style=\"white-space: nowrap;\"><span style=\"display: inline-block; background-color: rgb(0, 124, 0); border: 1px solid #888; border-radius: 0.3em; color: transparent; width: 1em; height: 1em; vertical-align: -0.36em; margin-right: -0.1em\"><br></span> 7 PLANT</span><br>'''(link to Bedrock Edition article, displayed as BE):''' (link to File:Grasscolor.png article, displayed as link=|12px|middle) ((link to #Color article, displayed as Grass tint))",
            "label": "(link to Map item format#Color table article, displayed as Map color)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Default (Harp)",
            "label": "(link to Note Block#Instruments article, displayed as Note block instrument)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Regular",
            "label": "(link to Sulfur Cube#Archetypes article, displayed as Sulfur cube archetype)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [
        "Grass Block"
    ]
}

A grass block is a natural block that generates abundantly across the surface of the Overworld.

Contents

1 Obtaining

1.1 Breaking
1.2 Natural generation
1.3 Mob loot
1.4 Post-generation

2 Color

2.1 Item
2.2 Biome colors

3 Usage

3.1 Death
3.2 Spawning
3.3 Snowy grass block
3.4 Composting

4 Sounds

4.1 Generic
4.2 Unique

5 Data values

5.1 ID
5.2 Block states

6 Videos
7 History

7.1 Before Minecraft
7.2 Java Edition
7.3 Bedrock Edition
7.4 Legacy Console Edition
7.5 New Nintendo 3DS Edition
7.6 Data history

7.6.1 Java Edition
7.6.2 Bedrock Edition

8 Issues
9 Trivia
10 Gallery

10.1 Mojang images
10.2 In other media

11 References
12 External links
13 Navigation

Obtaining
Breaking
A grass block can be obtained by mining it using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch. Otherwise, it drops dirt.
The snowy grass variant cannot be obtained as an item through regular gameplay, even with the use of Silk Touch. In Java Edition, commands can be used to give players a grass block that is set to the snowy state when placed (e.g. /give <player> minecraft:grass_block[minecraft:block_state={snowy:"true"}]).

Block

Grass Block

Hardness

0.6

Tool

Breaking time (sec)

Default

0.9

Wooden

0.45

Stone

0.25

Copper

0.2

Iron

0.15

Diamond

0.15

Netherite

0.1

Golden

0.1

OptionsEfficiency000Haste0011JEBE

Legend
 incorrect tool, drops nothing
 correct tool, drops nothing or something other than the block itself
 correct tool, drops the block itself
italicized can be instant mined

 These durations ignore any other influential factors (e.g., Mining Fatigue) and are measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Mining efficiency.

Natural generation
Grass blocks generate naturally in many biomes in the Overworld, and as part of villages and ancient cities. Grass blocks generate as disks between the mud in mangrove swamps.

Mob loot
Endermen can pick up grass blocks, and drop the blocks they are holding if killed, making it the only way to obtain grass blocks without the use of Silk Touch.

Post-generation
An in-game diagram of a grass block's spreading range
Grass can spread to nearby dirt blocks, but not coarse dirt or rooted dirt. Grass spreading without player intervention depends heavily on the time of day. For a dirt block to accept grass from a nearby grass block, the following requirements must be met:

The dirt block receiving grass must be within a 3×5×3 range of the source grass block where the source block is in the center of the second topmost layer of that range.
The source grass block must have a light level of 9 or brighter directly above it.
The block directly above the dirt block must allow light to pass through it and hit the dirt block, even though the actual light level does not matter. That means blocks that partially let light through such as stairs and slabs must not have their light-blocking side(s)‌[Java Edition  only] facing the dirt block.
The block directly above the dirt block must not be lava, water, or a waterlogged variant of a block.
When grass is random ticked, it spreads by checking 4 blocks within range and converts any dirt blocks selected into grass.
Though water and lava are both light-filtering blocks (meaning they decrease skylight by 1 level but do not affect block light), other light-filtering blocks such as ice and slime blocks do not block grass from spreading to the dirt block. Grass blocks can grow under all other transparent blocks like glass, fences, or torches. Grass jumps directly from one block to a neighbor and is not affected by gaps or other blocks being "in the way." Grass blocks spread at random intervals and have an equal chance of spreading to any suitable dirt blocks that are in range. Because grass can spread as much as 3 levels downward, it tends to spread down slopes much faster than it spreads up them.

Color
Plains (left) and forest (right) grass colors
The coloration of grass blocks is dependent on the biome they are in. A grass block always uses the color set to its location, regardless of how it was placed or of its source. This affects the sides and top of the block.
In Bedrock Edition, biome colors also appear on maps.

Item
In Java Edition,  an item of grass block uses biome color with temperature 0.5, downfall 1.0, and as a result is colored  #7cbd6b. In Bedrock Edition, this color is coded in the item's texture.

Biome colors
These values are generated by the biome dyeing algorithm, which depends on the biome's temperature and downfall. See biome colors for more information.

Biome

Color

Block

Badlands

 #90814D

Eroded Badlands

Wooded Badlands

Modified Badlands Plateau‌[BE  only]

Modified Wooded Badlands Plateau‌[BE  only]

Cherry Grove

 #B6DB61

Desert

 #BFB755

Savanna

Savanna Plateau

Windswept Savanna

Nether Wastes

Soul Sand Valley

Crimson Forest

Warped Forest

Basalt Deltas

Desert Hills‌[BE  only]

Desert Lakes‌[BE  only]

Badlands Plateau‌[BE  only]

Shattered Savanna Plateau‌[BE  only]

 #82C245

Stony Peaks

 #9ABE4B

Jungle

 #59C93C

Bamboo Jungle

Jungle Hills‌[BE  only]

Modified Jungle‌[BE  only]

Bamboo Jungle Hills‌[BE  only]

Sparse Jungle

 #64C73F

Modified Jungle Edge‌[BE  only]

Lush Caves‌[BE  only]

 #B9B75B

Mushroom Fields

 #55C93F

Mushroom Field Shore‌[BE  only]

Swamp

 #6A7039

Mangrove Swamp

 #4C763C

Swamp Hills‌[BE  only]

Plains

 #91BD59

Sunflower Plains

Beach

Dripstone Caves‌[JE  only]

Deep Dark

Sulfur Caves

 #ABA64F

Forest

 #79C05A

Flower Forest

Wooded Hills‌[BE  only]

Tall Birch Hills‌[BE  only]

Dark Forest

 #507A32

Dark Forest Hills‌[BE  only]

Pale Garden

 #878D76

Birch Forest

 #88BB67

Old Growth Birch Forest

Birch Forest Hills‌[BE  only]

Dappled Forest​[upcoming: Third Drop 2026]

 #df6827

Ocean

 #8EB971

Deep Ocean

Warm Ocean

Deep Warm Ocean‌[BE  only]

Lukewarm Ocean

Deep Lukewarm Ocean

Cold Ocean

Deep Cold Ocean

Deep Frozen Ocean

River

Lush Caves‌[JE  only]

The End

Small End Islands‌[JE  only]

End Barrens‌[JE  only]

End Midlands‌[JE  only]

End Highlands‌[JE  only]

The Void‌[JE  only]

Meadow‌[JE  only]

 #83BB6D

Meadow‌[BE  only]

 #86B87F

Old Growth Pine Taiga

Giant Tree Taiga Hills‌[BE  only]

Giant Spruce Taiga Hills‌[BE  only]

Taiga

 #86B783

Old Growth Spruce Taiga

Taiga Hills‌[BE  only]

Taiga Mountains‌[BE  only]

Dripstone Caves‌[BE  only]

 #8DB58A

Windswept Hills

 #8AB689

Windswept Gravelly Hills

Windswept Forest

Stony Shore

Gravelly Mountains+‌[BE  only]

Mountain Edge‌[BE  only]

Snowy Beach

 #83B593

Snowy Plains

 #80B497

Ice Spikes

Snowy Taiga

Frozen Ocean

Frozen River

Grove

Snowy Slopes

Frozen Peaks

Jagged Peaks

Snowy Mountains‌[BE  only]

Legacy Frozen Ocean‌[BE  only]

Snowy Taiga Hills‌[BE  only]

Snowy Taiga Mountains‌[BE  only]

 Above -0.1 temperature.

 Below -0.1 temperature.

Usage
Using bone meal on grass blocks causes short grass, tall grass, ferns,‌[Bedrock Edition  only] and flowers to grow.
Passive mobs tend to wander toward grass blocks. They also wander toward light.
When a sheep eats a grass block, the block becomes dirt, and a sheared sheep regrows its wool. Baby sheep graze grass much more often than adults and mature 1 minute faster when grazing.
Tilling a grass block with a hoe converts it to a farmland block.
Dirt paths can be created by using any type of shovel on the side or top of a grass block with air above it. The shovel loses 1 durability for each dirt path block created.

Death
Grass dies and changes to dirt a random time (when a random tick lands on the block) after it has been covered by any opaque blocks. Transparent blocks can kill grass in a similar manner if they cause the light level above the grass block to be four or below (like water does) and the surrounding area is not otherwise sufficiently illuminated.

Spawning
In Java Edition, animals occasionally spawn on grass blocks that have light level 9 or brighter in the space directly above. This is quite rare and requires that there be few other animals nearby or in any loaded chunks. Most animals are instead created along with the terrain.
In Bedrock Edition, most animals require surface grass blocks (grass blocks with no solid block anywhere above them at the same x, z coordinate) to spawn. Animals regularly spawn in most Overworld biomes on surface grass blocks that have light level 7 or brighter in the space directly above.

Snowy grass block
A snowy grass block with snow on top of it.
Grass blocks turn into a snowy grass block if snow, powder snow, or a snow block is placed on top of the block. Removing the snow layer turns the block into a normal grass block.
In Java Edition, the top face of snowy grass blocks is not affected by biome tinting and defaults to gray, which is not normally seen by players because of the snow layer on top. In Bedrock Edition, the top face of snowy grass blocks is affected by biome tinting and can be seen in-game when inside powder snow placed on grass blocks.

Composting
In Bedrock Edition, placing grass blocks into a composter has a 30% chance of raising the compost level by 1.

Sounds
Generic
Java Edition:

v
t
e grass sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokenblock.grass.breaksubtitles.block.generic.break​1.00.816​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedblock.grass.placesubtitles.block.generic.place​1.00.816​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenblock.grass.hitsubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.250.516​Something falls on a blockEntity-DependentFalling on the block with fall damageblock.grass.fallsubtitles.block.generic.fall​0.50.7516​FootstepsEntity-DependentWalking on the blockblock.grass.stepsubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.151.016
Bedrock Edition:

v
t
e grass sound typeSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​Block brokenBlocksOnce the block has brokendig.grasssubtitles.block.generic.break​0.70.8–1.0​Block placedBlocksWhen the block is placedplace.grasssubtitles.block.generic.place​0.80.8–1.0​Block breakingBlocksWhile the block is in the process of being brokenhit.grasssubtitles.block.generic.hit​0.30.5​FootstepsPlayersFalling on the block with fall damagefall.grasssubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.41.0​FootstepsPlayersWalking on the blockstep.grasssubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.31.0​Shovel flattensBlocksWhen a shovel creates a dirt pathuse.grasssubtitles.item.shovel.flatten​1.00.8​FootstepsBlocksJumping from the blockjump.grasssubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.111.0​FootstepsBlocksFalling on the block without fall damageland.grasssubtitles.block.generic.footsteps​0.211.0
Unique
Java Edition

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Shovel flattensBlocksWhen a shovel creates a dirt pathitem.shovel.flattensubtitles.item.shovel.flatten​1.01.016
Bedrock Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitch​ ?BlocksWhen a shovel creates a dirt pathuse.grass​ ?1.00.8
Data values
ID
Java Edition:

NameIdentifierFormBlock tagsItem tags
Translation key Grass Blockgrass_blockBlock & Itemanimals_spawnable_onbamboo_plantable_ondry_vegetation_may_place_onenderman_holdablevalid_spawnmoss_replaceablelush_ground_replaceablemineable/shovelgrass_blockssniffer_diggable_blockgrass_blockssulfur_cube_archetype/regular
block.minecraft.grass_block
Bedrock Edition:

NameIdentifierAlias ID Numeric ID FormItem ID
Translation key Grass Blockgrass_blockgrass2Block & Giveable ItemIdentical
tile.grass.name
 ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

 Available with /give command.

 The block's direct item form has the same ID as the block.

Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

  Name
  Default value
  Allowed values
  Description
  snowyfalsefalsetrueIf true, the block uses a snowy side and top texture.In-game, this is true when a snow block, powder snow, or snow is on top.
Videos





History
Before Minecraft
February 9, 2009
 The texture for grass is present in the terrain.png file for RubyDung, which led directly into pre-Classic.
Java Edition
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
 Added grass blocks, internally called just "grass".

Grass is one of the first two blocks in Minecraft, along with stone.

Grass generation is randomized, but it generates only on fully lit tiles. The higher the Y level is, the greater the chance of grass generating. At the top of the map, grass generates on all fully lit tiles.

 The bottom texture of grass blocks is mirrored vertically.rd-20090515
 The top texture and model of grass blocks have been changed.

The model now uses new texture on the side faces and dirt texture on the bottom face.

Grass now spreads to dirt under sunlight, allowing new grass blocks to be created.

Due to the lack of dynamic lighting mode, grass in shadows eventually dies and changes to dirt.Java Edition Classic0.0.19a
 Grass blocks are not placeable under normal conditions, as they are not present on the hotbar. This version is the one that introduces the concept of inventory sprites, and the sprite here can be seen in later versions.0.24 SURVIVAL TEST
Grass blocks now drop dirt when broken.October 25, 2009
On Notch's blog, sheep were shown to eat grass to regrow wool on their bodies, reverting the block to dirt. Often, the grass would regrow just as quickly as sheep would eat it.0.28
Sheep added, with the behavior described in development.0.30 (Creative)
Attempting to place grass blocks by means of hacking one's inventory in Classic Creative multiplayer now causes the server to automatically kick the player.Java Edition Indev0.3120091223-1459
With the introduction of dynamic lighting, grass is now able to grow in more dimly-lit areas, not having to be fully lit by the sun.20100124-2119
Grass blocks now generate in starting house chests.

Grass blocks are now placeable, although grass placed from the chest never reverts to dirt when in the shade. The only way to kill the grass is to break the block, so that it drops as dirt.20100129-1447
Grass blocks no longer generate in starting house chests.20100202
Sheep no longer eat grass blocks.20100206-2034
Grass blocks can now be tilled with a hoe into farmland, and had a chance of dropping wheat seeds.Java Edition Alphav1.0.4
 Added snowy grass blocks.

Snowy grass blocks appear when the grass blocks are under snow.

 The model of snowy grass blocks without snow use grass top texture on the top face.

 The model of grass blocks in item form has been changed. The model now uses grass block side texture on all faces.v1.0.5
Snowy grass blocks appear when the grass blocks are under snow blocks.v1.2.0preview
  The top texture of grass blocks and snowy grass blocks has been changed. The textures are now grayscale and are affected by biome colors.

 This change is not noticeable when snowy grass blocks are under snow layers or snow blocks.Java Edition Beta1.5
 The model of grass blocks now uses an overlay texture on its side faces, which, like its top texture, is grayscale and is affected by biome colors. This overlay texture is exclusive to the "Fancy" graphics setting.

 Grass blocks do not use the overlay on "Fast" graphics.1.6Test Build 3
Wheat seeds can no longer obtained by using a hoe on a grass block; short grass instead occasionally drops seeds when broken.1.6.6
Bone meal now causes short grass to grow when applied to grass blocks.1.7
 The models of snow layers have been changed.1.8Pre-release 2 ;)
It was again possible to legitimately obtain grass blocks in one's inventory, with the introduction of Creative mode.

 The model of grass block in item form have been changed. Grass blocks now use grass block top texture on the top face and dirt texture on the bottom face. The top face is now tinted with  #7cbd6b.

Name changed from "Grass" to "Grass Block".Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease
The swamp grass and foliage tints has been changed to hard-coded tints  #5C694E and  #496137.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Grass blocks have become obtainable for the first time in Survival mode through use of the Silk Touch enchantment, introduced with the new enchanting system.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 5
   The top texture of grass blocks has been changed.

 This change is not noticeable when snowy grass blocks under the snow layers or snow blocks.Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6
  The side texture of grass blocks has been changed.1.111w49a
Sheep can now graze on grass blocks again.12w01a
Grass blocks are now generating in superflat world type.1.2.112w07a
The player is now unable to till a grass block with a hoe when there is a block on top of the grass block.1.4.212w38a
New sounds were added for walking on grass blocks.1.513w02a
 Grass blocks do not use the overlay on fancy graphics.13w02b
 Grass blocks use the overlay on fancy graphics, once again.1.7.213w36a
A "grassless" dirt variant, that grass would not spread to, has now been added.1.814w07a
 For all blocks that include the grass blocks, the bottom texture is no longer mirrored.14w10a
 On the new block model, changing graphics to fast and turning off smooth lighting makes the side faces being fully biome colored.14w10b
The changes in snapshot 14w10a have been fixed.14w25a
 The top of snowy grass blocks is no longer biome-affected.

Grass blocks now always use the side overlay regardless of graphics setting.14w25b
 The item form of grass blocks now has the same color on the side as the top.14w27b
The top texture of grass is now rotated randomly, due to the addition of arrays to the block model format.1.915w31a
Grass blocks can now be turned into grass paths by right-clicking on them with a shovel.

Grass blocks can now be obtained by killing an enderman that is holding the block.1.1418w48a
Grass blocks now generate in the updated plains villages.18w49a
Grass blocks now generate in the updated savanna villages and the new snowy tundra villages.18w50a
Grass blocks now generate in the updated desert and taiga villages.19w05a
Dirt is now renewable because wandering traders now offer to sell podzol, making Grass blocks and Mycelium renewable.19w08a
 The side texture of grass blocks has been changed.

  The side texture of snowy grass blocks and the texture of snow have been changed.1.1721w11a
  The side texture of snowy grass blocks has been changed.1.18experimental snapshot 3
Grass blocks are no longer able to generate underwater.1.1922w13a
Grass blocks now generate as part of ancient cities.1.19.4ExperimentUpdate 1.2023w07a
Sniffers can now dig grass blocks.26.2snap1
Added sulfur cubes, which have the ability to absorb grass blocks, providing the football/regular effect to the mob.
Bedrock Edition



This section is missing information about: snowy grass block addition and changes and when the unused snowy grass block side texture that matches Java Edition was added 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
 Added grass blocks tinted with  #339933.v0.1.0
 Grass block has an item form. The model uses grass block side textures on all faces.v0.2.0
  The textures of grass blocks have been changed.v0.4.0
Grass can now be tilled with a hoe into farmland, and has a chance of dropping seeds.v0.5.0
  The side texture of grass blocks for block and item form has been changed. The item form now uses a separate top texture for its top face.v0.8.0build 1
  The side texture has been changed to the texture from before v0.5.0. The top texture for the block form is now tinted with  #87cd49. The top texture for item form has been changed to the pre-tinted top texture, which is identical to the block form.build 3
Grass now has a chance to drop beetroot seeds, carrots, or potatoes when tilled.build 4
Tilling can no longer spawn carrots or potatoes.v0.9.0build 1
  The top texture in block form are now tinted with biome colors. The side texture has been changed to various pre-tinted textures dependent by biome.v0.11.0build 1
Grass now can be pressed into grass path blocks when tapped with a shovel.v0.12.1build 1
Grass blocks no longer drop beetroot seeds when a hoe is used.

Grass blocks can now be obtained using the Silk Touch enchantment.build 8
Grass blocks no longer drop wheat seeds when a hoe is used.build 10
The sound of grass blocks has now been changed to match up with grass sound from Java 1.4.2.v0.14.0build 1
Grass blocks can now be obtained by killing an enderman that is holding the block.v0.16.0build 1
The biome-dependent colors of grass blocks now appear on maps.Bedrock Edition1.11.0beta 1.11.0.1
Grass blocks can now be used to fill up composters.beta 1.11.0.5
 The side texture of grass blocks has been changed.

 The side texture of snowy grass blocks and texture of snow has been changed.26.20Preview 26.20.20
Bone meal now causes tall grass to grow when applied to grass blocks.26.20ExperimentDrop 2 of 2026Preview 26.20.23
Added sulfur cubes, which have the ability to absorb grass blocks, providing the football/regular effect to the mob.26.30Preview 26.30.20
Implemented all features from the "Drop 2 of 2026" experiment in vanilla gameplay.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
 Added grass blocks.TU3
 Changed the texture of grass blocks.TU5
It is now possible to legitimately obtain grass blocks in one's inventory, with the introduction of Creative mode.

Name changed from "Grass" to "Grass Block".TU7
The swamp grass and foliage tints has been changed to hard-coded tints  #5C694E and  #496137.

Grass blocks have become obtainable for the first time in Survival mode through use of the Silk Touch enchantment, introduced with the new enchanting system.TU9
Grass blocks can now be eaten by sheep.TU43CU331.361.361.36Patch 13
Grass blocks can now be turned into grass paths by pressing  /  /  /  /  /  /  on them with a shovel.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Grass blocks can now be obtained by killing an enderman that is holding the block.   1.83
The side of non-snowy grass blocks is now 3d.1.91
Grass blocks can now be used to fill up composters.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
 Added grass blocks.
Data history
Java Edition
Java Edition1.814w06a
Grass blocks now have a dedicated model json file (models/block/grass.json); previously the geometry was defined in the game code itself.1.1317w47a
The ID of grass blocks has been changed from grass to grass_block.

Prior to The Flattening, this block's numeral ID was 2.1.1721w16a
Grass blocks are now in the dirt tag.26.1snap6
Grass blocks are now included in the block tag #grass_blocks instead of #dirt.
Grass blocks are now included in the item tag #grass_blocks
Bedrock Edition
Bedrock Edition1.20.70Preview 1.20.70.20
The ID of grass blocks has been changed from grass to grass_block.
Issues
Issues relating to "Grass Block" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Trivia
Grass blocks and dirt blocks changing between each other is a common cause of chunk updates.
The grass block has become a widely used symbol of Minecraft.
The icons for Java Edition and Bedrock Edition apps, except Java snapshots and Bedrock previews, are based on a grass block.
The favicon for Minecraft.net, as well as the icon for the Minecraft Launcher, used to be a grass block.
Snowy grass blocks can rarely spawn without snow layers on top of them.
Gallery
Mojang images



			A grass block floating in midair



			Grass blocks in a birch forest



			An image used to represent grass blocks


In other media



			Artwork of a bright grass block, used during the 10th anniversary



			Render of a grass block on a beige background



			A grass-growing guide made in early 2010



			Diagram of a grass block and various alternative soil blocks



			Jens describing grass blocks



			An officially licensed diorama, featuring Steve and a pig



			An official sticker for the grass block sold by JINX



			Grass block figure of Flippin' Figs



			Grass as seen in Choose Your Mode



			An advertisement for Minecraft at 25% off, featuring a grass block wrapped as a present



			A storage bin patterned like a grass block



			A grass block as seen in Minecraft 4k



			A grass block as seen in Minecraft Earth



			Pixel art of a grass block on the Mctools.dev homepage



			A grass block, oak planks, and blue ice on a lunch tray



			A grass block presented like an engagement ring, asking someone to play Minecraft with the speaker



			A Hot Wheels grass block minecart car


References

 "[MC-130658] Grass/foliage colors on maps still use the colors from Alpha v1.1.2_01 and earlier / do not change color with biomes – Jira"     – Mojira.

 MCPE-140266

 "Cave game tech test"  – (Archive) Nizzotch on YouTube, May 13, 2009

 MC-50222 – Dirt texture on Grass Blocks is green – resolved as "Fixed".

 "[MC-222004] Grass block isn't apart of the #dirt block tag – Jira"     – Mojira, April 2, 2021.   Resolved as "Fixed".

 "Celebrate with Us"     – minecraft.net.

External links
"Block of the Week: Grass"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, October 6, 2017.
Navigation