This article is about the original map.   For other iterations, see Grid Runners (disambiguation).



This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Trophies, costumes, skins, and vehicles



This article would benefit from the addition of more sounds. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable sounds to the article.

Grid Runners

Map maker(s)

Noxcrew

Price

Free

Release date

September 10, 2018

Tags

Friends
Free
Challenge
Casual
Games
Race
Replay Value
Logic

Genre(s)

Minigame
Racing

Players

Single player, Multiplayer (1-99)

Website page

Grid Runners in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Grid Runners",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Noxcrew article, displayed as Noxcrew)",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 10, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "<div style=\"\" class=\"collapsible collapsed collapsetoggle-inline \">\n\n<div class=\"collapsible-content \" style=\"\">Friends<br>\nFree<br>\nChallenge<br>\nCasual<br>\nGames<br>\nRace<br>\nReplay Value<br>\nLogic\n</div>\n</div>",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Minigame\n* Racing",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player, Multiplayer (1-99)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=ad98eaed-7759-4504-8b4c-2f7c2ccbdbf4 Grid Runners in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}
Key art
Grid Runners is a free Marketplace map developed by Noxcrew for MINECON Earth 2018, consisting of 18 minigames designed to be used in multiplayer.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Iron
1.2 Gold
1.3 Emerald
1.4 Diamond

2 Customization

2.1 Skins
2.2 Outfits
2.3 Cars

3 Soundtrack

3.1 Track listing

4 Quotes
5 Videos
6 History
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Official artwork
8.2 Promotional images
8.3 Screenshots

9 References
10 See also
11 Navigation

Summary
Upon starting the map, the player appears in an info room, giving various pieces of vital information. Facing them are ten signs, instructing the player on the rules and how to begin a round. Behind the player is a button that begins the map proper, but beside it are two more walls, promoting Noxcrew's Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram accounts. Once ready to play the game, the player drops down a tube and onto a slime block covered in carpets at the center of the map, as a narrator welcomes the player into the lobby.
The lobby is split into four main sections, each being a course where players can be on either the yellow team or blue team. While a game is in session, any non-participating players can go down a flight of stairs and watch the progress from extensive viewing booths next to the games. Upon starting, only the iron course is open, but a handful of other venues are available. Approaching the iron course, the player can see a promotion for Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map with new features, and on the right is a diagonal staircase leading up to a costume shop, where the player can select costumes and wear uniforms. Similarly, sandwiched between the diamond and emerald courses is a car shop, where players can ride cars similar to horses.
Around the gold course, the player can find two paths of sorts. To the left is a staircase leading to a food court, with acacia stairs for chairs and a stand full of cake. To the right of the course is a diving board, which the player can jump off into a tube into a lower area of the lobby, where their fall is broken by water. Dropping down to this area reveals it to be a pond, with a wooden bridge behind a quartz bridge, which leads to several long staircases leading upward and downward. Traveling down, the player finds a small patch of grass with artificial trees, before reaching an artificial lake with tropical fish swimming, an oak plank dock, a T. Rex fossil made out of sandstone and what appears to be a generator. If the player wishes to leave, there are several fan structures, identifiable by yellow carpets, which propels the player upward. Alternatively, the player can advance up the stairway, emerging from doors between the courses.

Iron
Dig Down!

“In the middle of a bustling city, someone had hidden a button at the bottom of a huge pile of dirt and gravel. Typical! Dig down and press the button to open the door.„
Players are dropped into a small town area, and given a stone shovel to dig through several coarse dirt and gravel blocks with. Eventually, they reach a small pool lined with torches and gray terracotta. Swimming over a little leads them to a button on a block of iron, labeled "Press Me!" Pressing it ends the minigame, but the team must climb a ladder into a room with a red bed and exit two iron doors to reach the actual exit.
Shoot 'em Up!

“This Saloon owner won’t let you in until you shoot down all of the minecarts with your bow. The Wild West is a strange place…„
Players walk into a badlands town location, underneath a wooden awning and before a saloon marked by banners, walled off with fences. Armed with a bow enchanted with infinity and five arrows, players must shoot eleven minecarts. Six are on two artificial cacti made of green terracotta, one is on red sandstone, one is on oak logs, and three are in a unique black colored wood structure in a horseshoe shape. Once all of them are shot, the teams advance through the build into the next room.
Copy the Painting!

“Channel your inner Bob Ross and copy the abstract painting on the left onto your empty canvas on the right. Instead of paints, you can step on the pressure plates behind you for each of the colours! If you place a block in the wrong place, you can use the shears to remove it and try again.„
Players enter a room with a painting, which they must recreate. Walking in, they are given shears with unbreaking III, and can select stacks of 10 wool by stepping on pressure plates. The painting is randomized, but the color scheme is preset, consisting of blue, yellow, brown, lime, and light blue.
Once players complete Copy the Painting, they enter into a flat strip of blocks they must sprint across to the finish line.

Gold
Climb the Cliff!

“Set in a canyon, you must parkour across the wooden platforms to reach the top of the cliff. Seems simple enough! Press the button at the top to open the door.„
Players drop into a badlands biome, and have to go through a parkour course to reach the exit. To start, they must position themselves on red terracotta and climb a ladder onto a piston pushing a plank block, which activates via a wooden pressure plate. From there the team must jump across slabs suspended by slabs, and climb another ladder before reaching a tight platform of pink terracotta and sneak around cobblestone walls, before sprinting off onto another ladder. Descending down a hall on the top of the cliff leads the player to a block of gold with a button, labeled "Press Me!" which opens the nearby exit.
Find the Exit!

“Cities can be big and confusing, but this one isn’t! It’s just small and confusing… No hints here, it’s a maze and you need to find your way to the door. Press the button to open it and head on through.„
Players arrive in an artificial cityscape, where they must find an exit. First, they must enter a cyan building, and walk down to a bottom floor into a door behind the stairs. Walking clockwise, they walk past iron bars, and then into a reddish house through a door that leads to the inside of a cage with a ladder. The ladder reaches to the button, which activates the exit.
Defeat the Beasts!

“We move from a city straight into a jungle temple. As you might expect, there are a few little rascals that don’t appreciate your presence here. Kill all of the skeleton and silverfish mobs and the door will magically open!„
Players enter above a fortified jungle biome. Given an iron sword with unbreaking III, a bow with unbreaking III and infinity, and five arrows, they must defeat several silverfish and skeletons. The area is two floors tall, the first being the top of a temple. Walking down stairs, players cross by three jungle trees and can enter into the temple, marked with blocks of emerald and polished andesite. Killing all the enemies opens the exit on the top of the temple.
Deposit the Gold!

“This one’s for all of you mining enthusiasts! The goal is to make a gold block. Use your pickaxe to mine gold ore, use the furnaces (and coal) to smelt it, then once you have enough gold ingots, use the crafting table to make it into a block. Once you deposit your block into the hopper, the door will open.„
Players enter a cave, tasked with crafting and depositing a block of gold into a hopper. Using an iron pickaxe with unbreaking III, they need to mine several gold ore, smelt them in a furnace, and craft them into a block. Gold and coal ore can be found throughout a long, descending cave. Once sufficient ore has been mined, they can be smelted in several different furnaces. Once the player has nine gold ingots, they can climb to a lush surface area adorned with acacia trees to access a crafting table, then return to the cave to a hopper lined with obsidian.
Upon beating Deposit the Gold, the teams emerge in a platforming section where they must climb a ladder and jump across large blocks to reach the finish line.

Emerald
Defeat the Beasts!

“Your first challenge is a spider cave. How lovely. The challenge is simple: defeat all of the spiders and you’ll be free to move on.„
Similar to in the Gold course, players must defeat several monsters with an iron sword, bow, and five arrows. This time, however, the enemies are spiders, and the arena is a cave full of cobwebs.
Catch the Fish!

“In eight pools of water, there are eight fish. Catch them all using the buckets in your inventory and the door will open for you.„
Players emerge into an area with several pools of water, with cod swimming inside. With a bucket, they must use the bucket on the cod. Upon collecting eight bucket of cod, the team can advance.
Light the Lamps!

“Use your excellent parkour skills to jump across the city to turn on each of the six lamps.„
Similar to the Gold course, players are dropped into a cityscape. This time, they must activate several redstone lamps, the closest being reachable through a ladder close to the entrance. The second can be reached by walking over a line of fences, while the third l be inside an orange building, behind the red building, and reached through quartz slabs. The fourth is inside a red building and requires parkour over red stained glass upward. The fifth is close to the exit, and can be reached through either wooden platforms or jumping from the red building. The sixth can be reached by climbing a smooth stone slab spiral staircase by the fourth, above the first.
Find the Flowers!

“Explore the beautiful garden, find the three flowers that we’re looking for and deposit them into the correct hoppers to open the door. Unfortunately all the while you’ll have to fend off a whole lot of zombies.„
Entering into a flower forest, players receive shears with unbreaking III and be tasked with collecting a red tulip, dandelion, and oxeye daisy. Making this difficult is the presence of several zombies, who provoke and attack the player endlessly until the time limit is reached. The tulip can be found outside of a cave, in front of a green carpet in the shadow of a tree, the daisy being not too far above, while the dandelion is right at the entrance by an andesite rocks.
Bake a Cake!

“Well that’s easier said than done. What kind of cake? Do you have any allergies? Only joking, it’s always the same in Minecraft! Traverse a small town build to find all the individual ingredients it takes to bake a cake (that’s milk, egg, sugar and wheat); craft it using the crafting table, and deposit it in the hopper to open the door.„
Players are dropped into a cityscape, this time with an iron hoe and tasked with crafting a cake. To get a bucket, they must enter a store building with a device that drops buckets, marked with an item frame and sea lantern, which they can use on a nearby cow in a cart behind the building. Sugar cane can be found right next to the cow, both growing and in a chest. Wheat grows in a greenhouse above the bucket store, which can be accessed by climbing a stairway above the sugar cane farm and jumping across an awning. Eggs can be found similarly, in a dropper on top of a building that can be reached by  jumping across a fan-like build made out of rails. A crafting table can be found in the back, in front of a hopper. Once the cake is "baked" and placed in the hopper, players can advance.
The final challenge of the course is to run over two streams of water to the finish line. If they fall into the water, they can climb up with ladders and try the jump again.

Diamond
Shoot the Targets!

“Search the cave for supplies and craft yourselves a bow and arrows. Everything you need is in there: sticks, flint, string and feathers. Shoot the minecarts down to open up the door. You can respawn the supplies using the button at the entrance should you run out, but be careful, that’ll spawn more spiders too!„
A combination of Defeat the Beasts and Shoot 'em Up, players drop into a plains ravine and have to shoot several minecart targets. However, they are given only an iron sword with unbreaking III, and have to craft a bow by killing spiders instead. Below, crowded by gravel, players can find a chest filled with flint, and across from that another chest with sticks. Upon crafting a bow (automatically enchanted with unbreaking III), the player can quickly slay the targets and move onto a suddenly appearing bridge. However, if they run out of supplies there is a block of diamond with a button that can restock supplies.
Knock em Down!

“An arena of zombies awaits. Your goal? To knock ‘em down into the hole in the floor! The pressure plates offer  useful snowballs and a slime block contraption to help you achieve your goal.„
In this minigame, teams must knock several zombies into a pit, using either slime blocks or snowballs. To get snowballs, they can stand on a pressure plate and gradually build up several stacks. To use slime blocks, there is a row of pressure plates in front of a window, which activate pistons and knock the zombies.
Mine to the Exit!

“The premise is simple: mine your way to the exit! No clues with this mini maze, but we have given you a pickaxe to make life easier. Once you reach the door, hit the button above to open it.„
Players are given an iron pickaxe, and have to locate an exit amongst several dozen stone blocks. Upon finding the secret spot, they must press a button to open the exit. However, potentially helping matters is that the window into the opponents' arena (visible in every minigame) shows the location of the exit.
Defeat the Beasts!

“In an underwater temple, use the tridents to defeat the three guardians hiding within. The door will open automatically.„
In this final iteration, players are given three tridents enchanted with loyalty III and unbreaking III, and have to fight three guardians in a miniature ocean monument. The first is present from the outset, and likely be the first guardian killed or attacked. The second is inside the structure itself, in a room lined with quartz pillars and dark prismarine. The third is in a narrow passageway, identifiable through two more pillars and an iron bar window.
Climb to the Exit!

“Your expert parkour skills are needed here! Traverse the jungles and obstacles to reach the exit. Press the button to open the door.„
Players must parkour through several obstacles, beginning with four rings made out of oak and jungle planks. Jumping onto a bush, the player must then platform across four plank blocks onto a wider platform with a spruce pressure plate, lowering a ladder. Climbing up, players can advance through a smaller, tube-like series of rings before reaching the exit.
Copy the Sculpture

“In this small factory, there is an abstract sculpture just waiting to be copied! Use the pressure plates behind you to select your blocks and match the sculpture exactly. Use the pickaxe to remove unwanted blocks.„
Similar to Copy the Painting, players must recreate a shape, this time a three-dimensional one with a diamond pickaxe with unbreaking III. The blocks available are red wool, light blue wool, black wool, white wool, cyan stained glass, and sea lanterns. As with Copy the Painting, the sculptures are randomized.
The final race to the exit comes in the form of several rapids, lined with stained glass, similar to the Emerald course but more numerous and thinner. As well, the ladders are on both sides of the blockade.

Customization
Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Number One

A light skinned, black haired figure with a noticeable nose, low lips, and eyes the same color as their hair.

The same as Number Eleven, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Two

A light skinned, curly red haired figure with barely visible facial hair, a grimace, and green eyes.

The same as Number Twelve, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Three

A light skinned, long black haired figure with tall brown eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Thirteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Four

A dark skinned, brown haired figure with tall black eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Fourteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Five

A pale skinned, purplish red haired figure with tall green eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Fifteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Six

A tan skinned, brown haired figure with tall purplish red eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Sixteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Seven

A dark skinned, brown haired figure with hair covering a tall, orange eye, with low lips.

The same as Number Seventeen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Eight

A tan skinned, black haired figure with hair covering one of their tall muted blue eyes, and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Eighteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Nine

A light skinned, green haired figure with tall blue eyes, noticeable eyelashes, a blush, and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Nineteen, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Ten

A light skinned,  short brown haired figure with tall blue eyes and a noticeable nose.

The same as Number Twenty, but in blue instead of yellow.

Number Eleven

A light skinned, black haired figure with a noticeable nose, low lips, and eyes the same color as their hair.

The same as Number One, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Twelve

A light skinned, curly red haired figure with barely visible facial hair, a grimace, and green eyes.

The same as Number Two, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Thirteen

A light skinned, long black haired figure with tall brown eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Three, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Fourteen

A dark skinned, brown haired figure with tall black eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Four, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Fifteen

A pale skinned, purplish red haired figure with tall green eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Five, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Sixteen

A tan skinned, brown haired figure with tall purplish red eyes and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Six, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Seventeen

A dark skinned, brown haired figure with hair covering a tall, orange eye, with low lips.

The same as Number Seven, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Eighteen

A tan skinned, black haired figure with hair covering one of their tall muted blue eyes, and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Eight, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Nineteen

A light skinned, green haired figure with tall blue eyes, noticeable eyelashes, a blush, and no visible mouth.

The same as Number Nine, but in yellow instead of blue.

Number Twenty

A light skinned,  short brown haired figure with tall blue eyes and a noticeable nose.

The same as Number Ten but in yellow instead of blue.

Outfits

Name

Render

Description

Consists

Unlocked

Red

File:Red Grid Runners.png

File:Red Headband Grid Runners render.png File:Red Headband Grid Runners item.png Headband
File:Red Jersey Grid Runners render.png File:Red Jersey Grid Runners item.png Jersey
File:Red Shorts Grid Runners render.png File:Red Shorts Grid Runners item.png Shorts
File:Red Sneakers Grid Runners render.png File:Red Sneakers Grid Runners item.png Sneakers

Unlocked by default

Blue

File:Blue Grid Runners.png

File:Blue Headband Grid Runners render.png File:Blue Headband Grid Runners item.png Headband
File:Blue Jersey Grid Runners render.png File:Blue Jersey Grid Runners item.png Jersey
File:Blue Shorts Grid Runners render.png File:Blue Shorts Grid Runners item.png Shorts
File:Blue Sneakers Grid Runners render.png File:Blue Sneakers Grid Runners item.png Sneakers

Unlocked by default

Yellow

File:Yellow Grid Runners.png

File:Yellow Headband Grid Runners render.png File:Yellow Headband Grid Runners item.png Headband
File:Yellow Jersey Grid Runners render.png File:Yellow Jersey Grid Runners item.png Jersey
File:Yellow Shorts Grid Runners render.png File:Yellow Shorts Grid Runners item.png Shorts
File:Yellow Sneakers Grid Runners render.png File:Yellow Sneakers Grid Runners item.png Sneakers

Unlocked by default

Green

File:Green Grid Runners.png

File:Green Headband Grid Runners render.png File:Green Headband Grid Runners item.png Headband
File:Green Jersey Grid Runners render.png File:Green Jersey Grid Runners item.png Jersey
File:Green Shorts Grid Runners render.png File:Green Shorts Grid Runners item.png Shorts
File:Green Sneakers Grid Runners render.png File:Green Sneakers Grid Runners item.png Sneakers

Unlocked by default

T-Rex Outfit

File:T-Rex Grid Runners.png

A stylized, green tyrannosaurus rex.

File:Red Headband Grid Runners render.png File:Red Headband Grid Runners item.png Headband
File:Red Jersey Grid Runners render.png File:Red Jersey Grid Runners item.png Jersey
File:Red Shorts Grid Runners render.png File:Red Shorts Grid Runners item.png Shorts
File:Red Sneakers Grid Runners render.png File:Red Sneakers Grid Runners item.png Sneakers

Found behind a waterfall in the basement and pressing a wooden button. Unlocking the costume plays a T. Rex roar.

Chicken Outfit

File:Chicken Outfit Grid Runners.png

File:Chicken Head Grid Runners render.png File:Chicken Head Grid Runners item.png Chicken Head
File:Chicken Wings Grid Runners render.png File:Chicken Wings Grid Runners item.png Chicken Wings
File:Chicken Legs Grid Runners render.png File:Chicken Legs Grid Runners item.png Chicken Legs
File:Chicken Fingers Grid Runners render.png File:Chicken Fingers Grid Runners item.png Chicken Fingers

Found using several fans and traversing upward, platforming across multiple ceiling fans before reaching a black button. Unlocking the costume plays clucking sounds and causes actual chickens to spawn in the lobby.

Bobblehead Steve

A stylized, "bobbleheadified" version of the Minecraft Steve character.

File:Bobble Head Grid Runners render.png File:Bobble Head Grid Runners item.png Bobble Head
File:T-Shirt Grid Runners render.png File:T-Shirt Grid Runners item.png T-Shirt
File:Pants Grid Runners render.png File:Pants Grid Runners item.png Pants
File:Shoes Grid Runners render.png File:Shoes Grid Runners item.png Shoes

Found in the basement pond, reachable through the diving board. Unlocking the costume triggers an animation of a large boxing glove made of red concrete emerging from a nearby wall and a voice clip of Bobblehead Steve.

Cars

Name
Render
Description
Notes

Green Car
File:Green Car Grid Runners.png

Orange Car
File:Orange Car Grid Runners.png

Red Car
File:Red Car Grid Runners.png

Blue Car
File:Blue Car Grid Runners.png

Soundtrack

Grid Runners

Studio album by

Isaac Wilkins

Released

September 19, 2018

Genre

Soundtrack

Length

4:33

Label

Noxcrew

Available as

Digital download

Discogs

Has no entry

Link

Spotify
Apple Music

{
    "title": "Grid Runners",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Isaac Wilkins article, displayed as Isaac Wilkins)",
            "label": "Studio album by"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 19, 2018",
            "label": "Released"
        },
        {
            "field": "Soundtrack",
            "label": "Genre"
        },
        {
            "field": "4:33",
            "label": "Length"
        },
        {
            "field": "Noxcrew",
            "label": "Label"
        },
        {
            "field": "Digital download",
            "label": "Available as"
        },
        {
            "field": "Has no entry",
            "label": "(link to wikipedia:Discogs article, displayed as Discogs)"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://open.spotify.com/album/39Z2ArAQSWy5is3WEwtlcc Spotify]\n\n[https://music.apple.com/us/album/grid-runners-single/1464582968 Apple Music]",
            "label": "Link"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Grid Runners is the official soundtrack for the map, containing two tracks from the map by Isaac Wilkins, which play during gameplay and the lobby.

Track listing

No.

Title

Length

1.
Grid Runner
2:22

2.
Lobby
2:11

Quotes
“Take on Noxcrew’s Grid Runners: a mini-game map made up of classic Minecraft challenges where you can craft, mine and jump your way to victory!
Compete against the clock for the fastest times and team up with all of your friends to find out who is the ultimate Minecraft champion! This is a free map, created exclusively for Minecon Earth 2018.„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Videos









History
Bedrock EditionSeptember 10, 2018
Grid Runners is released on the Marketplace.September 29, 2018
Grid Runners is played at MINECON Earth 2018.?
Grid Runners is updated, adding promotions for Grid Runners Pro.

Trivia
As the map predates Caves & Cliffs, gold ore drops as blocks without silk touch. Similarly, without moss blocks or moss carpets, green terracotta and carpets are used to represent moss.
Initially, the map was conceived as having randomized minigames. To do this, the developers made a list of "every interesting mechanic" in the game, however as they continued it became clear they were too intricate for a purely random experience.
Among the ideas scrapped from the map were "ender golf," redstone wiring, piston mazes, and a minigame involving sneaking around endermen.
Another scrapped feature was a token system, with players earning a currency from every mob slain during gameplay that could be used to unlock and upgrade gear that would provide buffs during gameplay. However, there were concerns that inventory management would over-complicate gameplay, and so they were replaced with the costume quests.
For a time, Grid Runners was distributed through the Target department store chain.
Gallery
Official artwork



			A cutout of a player from the key art, used to promote the map.



			A cutout of the logo on the key art.



			A cutout of a player from the key art, used to promote the map.



			Cover for the soundtrack.


Promotional images



			Panorama of the lobby.



			Four players in the lobby, approaching the Iron course.



			Two teams in Shoot em' Up!



			Two players in Copy the Painting.



			Two teams in the finish lines of the Iron course.



			Ditto, but cropped.



			The winning team, the losers in a pigpen.



			The vehicle shop.



			The costume shop.



			Ditto.



			A score board.



			An overhead of the Iron course.



			The Iron finish lines.



			Ditto, but cropped.



			The Iron course.



			The Gold course.



			The Emerald course.



			The Diamond course.



			Behind the scene picture of the live Grid Runners game at Minecon.



			Promotional image of the show.



			"Someone managed to capture the exact moment that Noxite began to question his life choices."


Screenshots


























































































References

 "Memories of Minecon - Grid Runners"     by Noctis  – noxcrew.com.

 "Noxcrew's Grid Runners"     – noxcrew.com.

 "Love seeing our guys on MINECON!! Stefan and Joe played a live action version of our new mini-game #GridRunners which will be available on the Minecraft Marketplace for FREE after the show!Thanks @toyaplay for the picture 😊#minecraft #minigames #minecrafter #minecon2018 #mineconearth #minecrafttarget" – @thenoxcrew on Instagram, September 29, 2018

 "Who tuned into #MINECON yesterday and saw our Avondale and Noxite attempting to play #GridRunners IRL?#minecraft #mineconearth #slime #gameshow #minecrafter #minigames" – @thenoxcrew on Instagram, September 30, 2018

 "Someone managed to capture the exact moment that Noxite began to question his life choices.#minecraft #mineconearth #minecon #slime #gameshow #minecrafter #minigames" – @thenoxcrew on Instagram, October 1, 2018

See also
Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map
Batman, another map created by Noxcrew
Frozen, another map created by Noxcrew
Frozen: Anna & Elsa Skin Pack, a skin pack released by Noxcrew
Kung-Fu Panda, another map created by Noxcrew
Terra Swoop Force, another minigame map by Noxcrew
Navigation