This article is a stub. 
You can help by expanding it. The talk page may contain suggestions.


Kan

Species

Human, Enderman












First appearance

Minecraft: The End

{
    "title": "Kan",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Human, Enderman",
            "label": "Species"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft: The End article, displayed as Minecraft: The End)''",
            "label": "First appearance"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Kan is a character in the novel Minecraft: The End. He lives in the End and is the friend of protagonists Fin and Mo.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Biography
4 Relationships

4.1 Fin
4.2 Mo
4.3 Karshen
4.4 Owari

5 Quotes
6 Navigation

Appearance



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Kan is described as having green eyes, for which he was bullied in the past.

Personality



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Kan loves playing music on his note block. His hubunits dislike this sound, which is why he has a sour relationship with his hubunits, especially Karshen. He frequently visits the End ship of his friends Fin and Mo. He practices in the Enderdome, but does not like it, especially because Taskmaster Owari keeps telling him to "get stronger" whenever he complains.

Biography



Spoiler warning! This section contains detailed information about The End that may spoil your enjoyment of it. Read at your own risk!



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Kan is introduced having left his hubunits and entered the End ship of Fin and Mo. Shortly after that, his hubunits come in and search the ship. In the meeting on the central island, Karshen reveals Kan as a human and berates him for this, throwing away his note block. Kan cries to this, and is healed by a golden apple.
Later, it is revealed that Fin and Mo "broke the cycle" by deciding to save him. He eventually proves instrumental in the battle against the Ender Dragon when his music distracts the dragon long enough to be slain.

Relationships
Fin
Fin and Kan trust each other, and they can easily be considered friends.

Mo
Kan is also very friendly with Mo.

Karshen
Kan and his hubunit Karshen have a sour relationship, with the latter frequently berating the former. Among other things, Karshen dislikes the noise of Kan's hobby of playing note blocks, and Karshen does not like that Kan is a human.

Owari
Kan dislikes Owari, his trainer in the Enderdome, in part due to his dislike of the Enderdome in general and Owari's abrasive nature. Their conversations have degraded to the point of Owari simply telling Kan to get better at training.

Quotes



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Navigation