This article is about the game mechanic.   For the enchantment, see Knockback.

An example of a villager taking knockback from a zombie.
Knockback represents the pushback from attacks or natural causes.

Contents

1 Attack knockback

1.1 Versus grounded entities
1.2 Versus airborne entities
1.3 Versus entities in vehicles
1.4 Versus entities during attack invulnerability time

2 Knockback sources

2.1 Natural damage
2.2 Damageless attacks
2.3 Snowballs and eggs

3 Sprint-knockback attack
4 Knockback resistance

4.1 Attributes

4.1.1 Knockback resistance
4.1.2 Explosion knockback resistance

4.2 Natural knockback resistance

5 Sounds
6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition
6.4 Java Edition Combat Tests

7 Issues
8 References
9 Navigation

Attack knockback
When receiving damage from players, mobs, explosions, and most projectiles, entities are also knocked back. The direction of knockback is determined by the direction of the incoming attack.

Versus grounded entities
Knockback dealt to grounded entities knocks them into the air and away from the attack.

Versus airborne entities
Knockback dealt to airborne entities differs between Java Edition and Bedrock Edition. In Java Edition, knockback against airbone entities only knocks them away from the attack and does not knock them further into the air. In Bedrock Edition, knockback against airborne entities is identical to knockback against grounded entities.

Versus entities in vehicles
Entities inside minecarts or boats, as well as entities that are riding mountable entities like horses and camels, never receive any knockback when attacked.

Versus entities during attack invulnerability time
Knockback dealt to entities during attack invulnerability time, the 0.5 seconds (500ms) of invulnerability received after taking damage, is ignored.
Attacking with a sword or spear that has the Knockback enchantment will still deal the enchantment's knockback against invulnerable entities, assuming the damage that entity previously took is surpassed by the damage of the follow-up sword or spear attack.

Knockback sources
Natural damage
Most types of natural damage—i.e. indirect damage—cause the screen tilt characteristic of all damage, but do not deal knockback because they do not change the coordinates of the damaged entity. These include burning, drowning, lightning, falling, suffocation, entity cramming, and starvation; block-inflicted damage from fire, cactus, lava, magma blocks, campfires, and sweet berry bushes; and damage from status effects like Poison, Wither, and Instant Damage.
Indirect damage sources that do deal knockback include the breath attack of the ender dragon, the beam attack of guardians and elder guardians, the sonic boom attack of wardens, the roar attack of ravagers, evoker fangs, damage from the Thorns enchantment, and the effect cloud from lingering potions of Harming.
Knockback received from players or mobs using a sword enchanted with Knockback is greater than normal.

Damageless attacks
Attacks that deal 0HP or less fail to deal knockback. The Weakness status effect can cause attacks that deal 0HP, causing them to deal no knockback.

Snowballs and eggs
Thrown eggs and snowballs cause knockback to mobs even if they do not deal any damage. In Bedrock Edition, thrown eggs and snowballs also apply knockback to players.

Sprint-knockback attack
Performing a sprint-knockback attack.
Doing a melee attack while sprinting causes a sprint-knockback attack to be performed, inflicting extra knockback and canceling the sprint. In Java Edition, sprint-knockback attacks play a unique sound when performed, and they require an attack cooldown charge of at least 84.8%. Spears are the only item type that cannot do sprint-knockback attacks.
In Java Edition, sprint-knockback attacks cannot be performed at the same time as critical hits or sweep attacks. If a sprint-knockback attack is performed at the same time as a critical hit, the sprint-knockback attack takes priority. They can however be performed at the same time as smash attacks and crushing blows.
The extra inflicted knockback stacks with the Knockback enchantment. Like the Knockback enchantment, sprint-knockback attacks do not increase knockback against entities that are immune to knockback, such as iron golems or shielding players. The only exceptions to this are armor stand and boats, which ordinarily do not take knockback when hit but do when hit by a sprint-knockback attack.

Knockback resistance
Attributes
Main article: Attribute
Knockback resistance
Knockback resistance reduces knockback by multiplying the velocity value that a mob receives from an attack's knockback. If the velocity the mob would have without any knockback resistance is v, and the mob has a knockback resistance of r%, then the mob's actual velocity is determined by the formula A=v×(1−r100). Each piece of netherite armor adds 10% knockback resistance to its wearer, giving 40% knockback resistance with a full set.

Explosion knockback resistance



This feature is exclusive to Java Edition. 

Explosion knockback resistance reduces knockback from explosions and fireworks. It is received through the Blast Protection enchantment, and uses the formula (15 × level)%. The effect stacks with multiple armor pieces, with two pieces of Blast Protection IV armor resulting in 100% explosion knockback resistance. It also reduces the knockback affect of wind charges and the Wind Burst enchantment.

Natural knockback resistance
Main article: Mob
Certain mobs have natural knockback resistance that causes them to resist knockback from attacks. Iron golems, shulkers, agents, NPCs, wardens, and ender dragons have 100% knockback resistance, while other mobs have varying levels of knockback resistance.

Mob

Knockback resistance

Agent

100% (are invulnerable)

Drowned

0%–5% (determined on spawn)

Hoglin

60%

Husk

0%–5% (determined on spawn)

Glow Squid

85%

Iron Golem

100%

NPC

100% (are invulnerable)

Polar Bear

60%‌[JE  only]

Ravager

70%‌[JE  only]75%‌[BE  only]

Squid

85%

Shulker

100%

Warden

100%

Zoglin

60%

Zombie

0%–5% (determined on spawn)

Zombie Villager

0%–5% (determined on spawn)

Zombified Piglin

0%–5% (determined on spawn)

Sounds
Java Edition:

SoundsSoundClosed captionsSourceDescriptionIdentifierTranslation keyVolumePitchAttenuationdistance​Knockback attackPlayersWhen a player deals a sprint-knockback attackentity.player.attack.knockbacksubtitles.entity.player.attack.knockback​0.71.016
History
Java Edition
Java Edition Classic0.24_SURVIVAL_TEST
Added the knockback mechanic.

Mobs and the player now take knockback when damage is taken.Java Edition BetaJuly 26, 2011
Notch first teased how sprint-knockback attacks would work.1.8Pre-release
Added sprint-knockback attacks.Java Edition1.3.112w25a
Entities no longer receive downwards knockback from drowning damage.1.915w34c
Sprint-knockback attacks now require an attack cooldown percentage of 84.8% or greater.
Sprint-knockback attacks can no longer be activated simultaniously with critical hits, and instead the sprint-knockback attack takes priority.15w36a
Fishing bobbers no longer inflict knockback when attaching to an entity.15w46a
Iron golems now resist 100% of knockback.15w47a
Sprint knockback attacks now have a vertical knockback value of 0.5 instead of 0.1 (non living entites use the old value of 0.1).15w47b
Added sounds for sprint-knockback attacks.15w49a
Entities that are airborne no longer take vertical knockback when attacked, now only taking horizontal knockback.
Entities that take damage while gliding with elytra no longer take vertical knockback.1.14.3pre3
Blazes now take knockback when damaged by splash and lingering water bottles.1.1620w06a
The knockback resistance attribute now decreases the knockback taken from attacks, in addition to its existing effect of giving a random chance to ignore all knockback.1.18.222w03a
The knockback resistance attribute no longer gives a random chance to ignore all knockback.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.2.0
Added the knockback mechanic.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.11
Added featured servers, some of which opt to fix MCPE-170242.26.10Preview 26.10.20
Entities that are invulnerable are no longer knocked back when attacked, fixing MCPE-170242.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added the knockback mechanic.
TU141.04
Removed the downward knockback while drowning.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Iron golems now resist 100% of knockback.

Entities that are airborne no longer take vertical knockback when attacked, now only taking horizontal knockback.TU53CU431.491.501.49Patch 231.0.3
Fishing bobbers no longer inflict knockback when attaching to an entity.TU57CU491.571.561.56Patch 271.0.7
Fishing bobbers once again inflict knockback when attaching to an entity.[is this the correct version?]
Java Edition Combat Tests
Java Edition Combat Tests5
Entities that are airborne now take vertical knockback when attacked, rather than only taking horizontal knockback.
Issues
Issues relating to "Knockback" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

References

 MC-90549 – Taking damage while gliding pushes you upwards

 MCPE-170242 – Clicking fast when hitting mobs results in insane knockback – resolved as "Fixed".

 MCPE-170242 – Clicking fast when hitting mobs results in insane knockback – resolved as "Fixed".

Navigation