This page describes content that has been removed from Java Edition. 
This feature was present in earlier versions of Java Edition, but has since been removed.

This page documents a list of entities, mobs and related features which no longer exist in current versions of Java Edition.

Contents

1 Indev MD3 mobs
2 Mob

2.1 Builders

3 Baby Camel Husk
4 References

Indev MD3 mobs

Beast Boy, Black Steve, Steve, and Rana were human mobs originally used as tests during the Indev phase. They were made by Dock, one of Minecraft's past artists. After Dock left the Minecraft development team, these MD3 mobs were cut from the game. These mobs had no animation and glided around in the same pose. Notch also tested some other MD3 models that weren't going "into the final game."



			Beast Boy.



			Black Steve.



			Steve.



			Rana.


Mob
A mob in rd-132328.
Main article: Mob (entity)
Mob were passive mobs who took the form of clones of Steve, the only default skin at the time. In Classic, humans could be spawned by pressing G and would run around aimlessly. From Classic 0.24_SURVIVAL_TEST and onward, there was another mob called "Monster" that looked like a human but would attack the player. This "Monster" was the result of trying to spawn the base class for hostile mobs as an actual mob, a similar situation would later occur for humans too. Notch also used the name "monster" for the green humanoids in his unfinished game: Legend of the Chambered. The entity IDs Mob, for mobs, and Monster, for "Monster", existed until 1.11, in which entity IDs were converted to resource locations.

NameSavegame IDNumeric ID
 MobHuman48

NameSavegame IDNumeric ID
 HumanMonster49

Builders
Builders existed as a special variant of Mob holding iron pickaxes that could break and place blocks. They were only available in the private development version Java Edition Beta 1.2_02 (20110517), which was never supposed to be released to the public.

Baby Camel Husk
A baby camel husk prior to the removal of its model in 26.1 Snapshot 6.
Camel Husks originally had a baby variant when they were first introduced in 25w44a. This baby variant had its model removed when the regular camel had its updated in 26.1 Snapshot 6, making it appear identical to an adult camel husk, albeit still having the properties of a baby. Baby camel husks were fully removed in 26.1 Snapshot 7.

References

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87ZyyYKbdlY&list=PLYvbqe7pJsoP9Z2AisjV8jcRPZzV93j7i&index=23&t=1s