This is a list of features which were broken by 12w18a's client-server logic split which remained broken into the full release of 1.3.1. As a relatively large number of things were affected by this change, and in many cases the differences are subtle or difficult to notice at a glance, this page serves to demonstrate these behaviors in more detail than is typically provided by the regular changelog.

Contents

1 Summary
2 Still-broken features

2.1 Specialized loading text
2.2 Notch dropping an apple on death
2.3 Mob construction particles
2.4 Ghast loading animation
2.5 Minecart physics
2.6 Instant entity teleportation
2.7 Creative mode default items

3 Partially fixed features

3.1 Map behavior
3.2 Portal travel sound
3.3 Directional damage tilt
3.4 Progress bars

4 Fixed features

4.1 Hidden experience level in Creative mode
4.2 Darker thunderstorms
4.3 Health bar showing lost hearts
4.4 Most server-side particles
4.5 Saving Level text
4.6 Nether portal exit animation
4.7 Ambient darkness effects
4.8 Sky instantly reflecting desired time after time change
4.9 Dropped item positional accuracy
4.10 Dragon egg trails
4.11 Enderman teleport particles

5 References

Summary
Note that due to the nature of these bugs, all of the features listed here only functioned in singleplayer prior to 12w18a – the reason they broke in the first place is because singleplayer was changed to use multiplayer logic internally and these features were not accounted for. Likewise, features that have since been fixed now function in both singleplayer and multiplayer.

Feature

Description

Fixed in version(s)

Bug tracker report(s)

Hidden experience level in Creative mode

The player's experience level would be hidden from the HUD while in Creative mode.

13w21a

None/Unknown

Darker thunderstorms

Thunderstorms would darken the sky, clouds, and lighting to a greater extent than normal rain.

13w39a

MC-673

Health bar showing lost hearts

Taking damage would cause the lost hearts to flash a pale red color on the HUD.

14w32a

MC-2930

Most server-side particles

Water/lava collisions, burning out redstone torches, mob armor breaking, End portal frame eye additions and more would create dedicated particles for these events.

19w14a

MC-10369

Saving Level text

A "Saving level.." indicator would appear on the bottom left of the pause menu when the level was being saved.

21w42a

MC-73300

Nether portal exit animation

Being placed at a destination Nether portal would show the effect at full intensity, rapidly decreasing to nothing.

1.20 Pre-release 1

MC-180

Ambient darkness effects

Entity shadows, water overlays and vignettes would adjust according to sky brightness.

24w40a

MC-259651

Sky instantly reflecting desired time after time change

The sky would instantly change its appearance after sleeping or changing time with commands.

24w44a (commands)26.1 Snapshot 3 (beds)

MC-72846MC-233911

Dropped item positional accuracy

Items drops would appear in the correct location without snapping or rounding to desynchronized coordinates.

16w06a (partial)16w32a (partial)26.3 Snapshot 1 (full)

MC-4

Dragon egg trails

Dragon eggs would create a trail of particles leading from their old location to their new location upon teleporting.

1.4.3 (partial)26.3 Snapshot 4 (full)

MC-160MC-2157

Enderman teleport particles

Endermen would produce a trail of particles upon teleportation.

26.3 Snapshot 10

MC-258347

Map behavior

Maps would draw new terrain very quickly, restore visible terrain instantly after a world reload, and update the position marker to match the player's position/rotation continuously with no delay.

14w28a (partial)

MC-237239

Portal travel sound

Entering a Nether portal or End portal would play a sound once the loading screen appeared.

16w02a (partial)

MC-233

MC-302305resolved as "Won't Fix"

Directional damage tilt

The screen tilting would indicate what direction damage came from.

23w03a (partial)

MC-26678

MC-259212

Progress bars

These would be shown under text when creating, loading or saving worlds or when entering or exiting dimensions.

25w31a (partial)

MC-2681resolved as "Works As Intended"

Specialized loading text

Loading screens would display specialized text for entering and leaving dimensions, respawning, and deleting the world in hardcore mode.

Not fixed

MC-12789

Notch dropping an apple on death

Players named Notch would drop an apple along with their inventory upon death.

Not fixed

MC-96781

Mob construction particles

Building iron golems and snow golems would result in the production of particles.

Not fixed

MC-217618MC-217619MC-217641

Ghast loading animation

Ghasts would visually expand directly prior to shooting a fireball.

Not fixed

MC-165038resolved as "Won't Fix"

Minecart physics

Minecarts would quickly change orientation in response to entity collision and could push other entities.

Not fixed

MC-193779resolved as "Works As Intended"

Instant entity teleportation

Teleporting entities (most notably, endermen) would move instantly to their new location instead of interpolating to it.

Not fixed

MC-303560resolved as "Works As Intended"

Creative mode default items

Players in creative mode would receive a set of default items upon loading the world or switching from another game mode.

Not fixed

None/Unknown

Still-broken features
Specialized loading text
Loading screens would originally change their upper line of text to be specialized to the action that was being performed. When entering the Nether or End, the screen would respectively display "Entering the Nether" or "Entering the End". Leaving either dimension would display "Leaving the Nether" or "Leaving the End". Respawning after death would display "Respawning", while deleting the world after dying in Hardcore mode would display "Deleting world". All of these no longer occur since 12w18a. In Java Edition 1.20.5, dimension backgrounds were added to distinguish the Nether or End dimension teleports, but the text has yet to be restored and there is still no loading screen displayed when respawning.
As Hardcore mode no longer deletes the world on death, the loading text for that can arguably be considered "fixed" by technicality – although no corresponding text is displayed for spectating the world either.



			Entering the Nether



			Leaving the Nether



			Entering the End



			Leaving the End



			Respawning



			Deleting world


Notch dropping an apple on death
Prior to 12w18a, any player named "Notch" would drop an apple along with their inventory when killed in singleplayer. This no longer happens, and their inventory will simply be dropped as normal.
In the years since, Mojang has distanced themselves from Notch and removed most references to him from the game, following controversial statements he made on Twitter. Despite this, the associated bug tracker issue remains open.

Mob construction particles
When a snow golem was built, along with the snow golem, a cloak of snowflake particles would also be generated around it. Similarly, when building an iron golem, a burst of snowball-textured particles would also be created at the instant of its spawning. In 12w18a, these particles would no longer appear at all, and the mobs would just phase into existence with no further effects.
When the wither was made spawnable, its spawning code also made it create snowball particles in much the same way that iron golems would. The particles stop appearing in 13w03a.
In 17w47a, due to changes to the breaking of blocks, particles would again be generated upon the creation of the golems and for the first time ever the wither. However, these particles are functionally and fundamentally different – where the particles were themed for the mob at first, these particles were simply the result of the constituent blocks being broken by the game, and as such were block breaking particles using the textures of the blocks in question. The actual particles for these three mobs still remain to be fixed.
Before:










After:










Ghast loading animation
When ghasts were first added, they would compress slightly before shooting a fireball, similarly to a creeper about to explode. This created the visual effect of the ghast "charging" a fireball, rather than just opening its mouth and firing it. They would also return to normal size if the player gets out of their sight before they can shoot a fireball. However, the effect was not properly networked from the server to the client, causing it to not work in multiplayer. As a result, when singleplayer was changed to use an internal server, the effect broke there too. The code which created this effect was removed from the game entirely in 1.8.



			A ghast shooting a fireball



			A ghast "reinflating" after a player gets out of its sight


Minecart physics
Prior to the client-server split, minecarts were capable of pushing players, and would react immediately and change direction when pushed. However, minecarts no longer push the player, and turn more gradually.


			Minecart in 1.2.5



			Minecart in 1.3.1 and onwards


Instant entity teleportation



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Enderman (Might not be a good way to show ender pearls but show if there is)

Teleporting entities originally snapped straight from their old position to their new position, with no visible movement between them, as would be expected from a teleport. However, client-side interpolation is not turned off for teleporting entities in multiplayer (and singleplayer after 12w18a), causing them to instead appear to quickly travel in a straight line to the new position. This was reported on the issue tracker and closed as "Works As Intended".

Creative mode default items
Prior to 12w18a, creating or loading a singleplayer world in creative mode would automatically fill empty slots in the hotbar with specific blocks corresponding to each slot:

These are the same blocks that Creative mode players spawned with from Indev version 20091223-1459 until the mode's removal a few days later. When commands were added to singleplayer in 12w16a, these blocks would also be given when switching from Survival to Creative mode using the /gamemode command. In 12w18a onwards, the player no longer receives these blocks.

Partially fixed features
Map behavior



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Comparison of pre-14w28a and post-14w28a, so we have a direct comparison between the current behavior and the original, intended behavior

Maps originally had the ability to draw in new terrain very quickly, and the marker indicating the player's location would update in real-time as the player moved and turned. Additionally, opening an existing map after a world reload would have its contents be visible immediately. Since 12w18a, terrain on maps (both new and existing) is now very slowly drawn in column-by-column, and the position marker appears noticeably more choppy, only updating around three to four times per second.
14w28a greatly improved the speed at which terrain appears on maps to be near-instant, but the position marker remains unfixed.
Before:



			Creating a new map



			Viewing an existing map



			Marker rotation


After (12w18a-14w27b):



			Creating a new map



			Viewing an existing map



			Marker rotation


Portal travel sound
Travelling to another dimension via the use of a Nether portal or End portal would result in a dedicated sound being played on the dimension loading screen. However, this sound did not play in multiplayer, and the player would instead be teleported silently. Therefore, when singleplayer was changed to use a multiplayer server in 12w18a, the sound stopped playing in singleplayer too. In 16w02a, this sound would now play again, but after transport to the dimension rather than on the loading screen.

Directional damage tilt
Originally, taking damage would cause the player's camera to tilt toward the entity that damaged them. If the damage came from an environmental source, then it would instead tilt randomly to either the left or the right. However, the direction value was not properly networked or set in multiplayer, causing the camera to always tilt left, as this is the default value. As a result, when singleplayer was changed to use an internal server, this feature broke entirely.
The directional tilt when being damaged by an entity was fixed in 23w03a, despite being previously marked as "Won't Fix" on issue tracker. However, damage from non-entity sources is still broken, as it will "remember" the last direction the camera tilted in instead of randomly tilting left or right.



			Directional damage tilt used in versions before 1.3.1



			Directional damage tilt used in versions after 1.3.1



			Directionless damage tilt in versions before 1.3.1



			Directionless damage tilt in versions after 1.3.1


Progress bars
When generating or loading a world or entering a given dimension, a green progress bar would appear on screen under relevant text. As of 1.3.1, this progress bar would no longer appear. For world generation and loading, a chunk graph was added in 1.14 and a progress bar was re-added in 1.21.9. However, dimension loading screens still show nothing.






Fixed features
Hidden experience level in Creative mode



This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.

In Creative mode, all icons above the hotbar were intended to be hidden, but due to game mode logic being handled differently between singleplayer and multiplayer, the experience level number (but not the experience bar) was incorrectly still shown in multiplayer. As a result, this carried over to singleplayer in 12w18a.
In 13w21a, the experience level was hidden again while fixing a bug that caused the experience bar to also become visible in Creative mode. While this could arguably be considered a loss of functionality, later issues regarding the experience bar/level being hidden were closed as "Works As Intended", confirming that not showing the experience level (as had previously been the case in singleplayer) was the intended behavior.

Darker thunderstorms
Prior to 12w18a, thunderstorms would darken the sky, clouds, and world lighting further than rain did. However, clients were not notified if the world was thundering so the sky appears to be like regular rain instead. This was fixed in 13w39a, where thunderstorms now darken the sky again.



			Regular rainy weather, sky light level 12



			Intended appearance of thunderstorm in singleplayer, sky light level 10



			Appearance of thunderstorm in multiplayer with a brighter sky than intended


Health bar showing lost hearts
Originally when taking damage, the health bar would flash the hearts that had just been lost with a pale red color. This effect did not work in multiplayer, and thus broke when singleplayer was changed to an internal server. The animation was restored in 14w32a, and further enhanced so it now stacks lost hearts if damage is taken repeatedly in a short period of time.



			Before 1.3.1



			After 1.3.1


Most server-side particles
Certain particles were created dependent on the server, and never showed up on clients connected to said servers. As a result, several particles simply stopped appearing in 12w18a and beyond. The majority of these were eventually fixed in 19w14a.
The following particles stopped appearing in 12w18a:

Particles from redstone torches burning out
Bursts of particles from successful breeding
Active particles from animals in love mode stopped appearing in 1.9, for a likely similar server-related reason.
Particles from mobs created by monster spawners
Particles from contact between water and lava
Particles from placing an eye of ender in an End portal frame
Before:






















After:






















Saving Level text
[verify]
In the pause menu, the bottom left would display "Saving level.." for a few seconds as it saved the level. As of 21w42a, the text "Saving world" shows in the bottom right whenever the game autosaves, regardless of if the player is in the pause menu. This can be toggled in the video settings.






Nether portal exit animation
Exiting a Nether portal originally showed a screen effect combination, in which the nausea effect would ramp down and stop and the portal texture overlay would disappear. Starting in 12w18a, this would no longer occur; spawning in the exit portal would either not play a screen animation at all, or the ramp-up animation used when entering the portal would repeat and then loop forever until stepping out. As of 12w34a, the latter now seems to occur consistently, making the brokenness of this harder to spot.
The intended animation was restored in 1.20 Pre-release 1.



			12w17a and prior



			12w18a to 12w32a


The table below demonstrates the historical visual behavior of entering a Nether portal, with time passing going to the right. Blank spaces show where the effect does not play, an animated Nether portal texture shows when the effect is at full intensity, and a static Nether portal texture shows where the portal animation is either accelerating or decelerating.

Behavior type

Before entering a portal

Standing in the entry portal

Loading screen

Standing in the exit portal

Stepping out of the portal

Alpha v1.2.0 – 12w17a(intended behavior)

12w18a – 12w32a(sometimes)

12w34a – 23w18a;sometimes in earlier versions

Ambient darkness effects
At night time, entity shadows would be hidden, the water overlay would be darker and the vignette would show up. In multiplayer however, the variable determining the strength of these effects was not updated even though it is a client-side feature. This was fixed in 24w40a where the effects were restored.
Before:














After:














Sky instantly reflecting desired time after time change
Before 12w18a, the sky would instantly change its appearance after the sleeping animation, or after changing time with commands. As of 12w18a there is a noticeable delay before the sky's appearance actually changes as a result of the server only periodically sending time of day updates to clients. Fixed in 24w44a for the /time command​[more information needed] and in 26.1 Snapshot 3 for beds.
Note that at some point around the same time as the fix, the sun and moon began interpolating to their new positions over a single tick whenever the time changes instead of moving instantly, but this is very hard to notice and is an unrelated bug which isn't directly caused by any changes made in 12w18a.​[more information needed]



			Before 1.3.1



			After 1.3.1


Dropped item positional accuracy



This section describes content that is currently in development for Java Edition. 
This content has appeared in  development versions for Java Edition 26.3, but the full update adding it has not been released yet.





This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This section is missing information about:
does https://youtu.be/VKHBJxtSlc0 contain any relevant information?
was MC-249200 also caused by 12w18a? 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

In singleplayer before 12w18a, items dropped from the player or blocks would display at the correct location without any corrections or errors. After 12w18a's server merge, the client still kept its high precision velocity calculation instead of conforming to the servers low precision velocity calculation. This resulted in item drops being misplaced or snapping from its intended location due to server and client mismatch of precise coordinates.
An attempted fix was made in 1.8.1-pre1, which had no effect. In 16w06a, a change to entity movement partially corrected the block edge miscalculation issue in regular gameplay scenarios. An undocumented change occurred in 16w32a, mentioned by Jeb on the issue tracker and Reddit, that fixed the correction snapping issue,  In 26.3 Snapshot 1, all remaining server/client mismatches of item coordinates were finally fixed, closing the issue after 13 years of being open.

Dragon egg trails



This section describes content that is currently in development for Java Edition. 
This content has appeared in  development versions for Java Edition 26.3, but the full update adding it has not been released yet.


When first implemented, dragon eggs would leave a trail of particles upon performing a teleportation. This trail of particles would lead from their initial position directly to the position they teleported to. Like several other particle effects, these stopped appearing in 12w18a.
In 1.4.3, the particles were restored, but they were still broken – as they are created by the client independently of the egg's actual teleport destination, they rarely point to the correct location. This bug would eventually be fixed in 26.3 Snapshot 4, with the trail of particles once again leading to the dragon egg's actual teleport destination.



			b1.9-pre6 – 12w17a: accurate particles



			12w18a – 1.4.2: no particles



			1.4.3 – 26.3 Snapshot 3: particles point in a completely wrong direction


Enderman teleport particles



This section describes content that is currently in development for Java Edition. 
This content has appeared in  development versions for Java Edition 26.3, but the full update adding it has not been released yet.





This section would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.



This section is missing information about: also elaborate on shulker and chorus fruit particles 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Endermen are programmed to create a trail of particles leading from their old location to their new location when teleporting, but this is not networked correctly.​[until: JE 26.3] As a result, the particles did not appear in multiplayer and no longer appear at all since 12w18a.​[until: JE 26.3] Note that due to teleportation no longer being instant, some particles may still appear – these are simply a result of the enderman happening to emit ambient particles mid-interpolation, rather than an effect intentionally programmed into the game. The original teleportation particles have yet to be fixed.​[until: JE 26.3]

References

 MC-123338

 MC-303560 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 MC-302305

 MC-13626 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-16683 – resolved as "Works As Intended".

 https://twitter.com/Dinnerbone/status/497362125476478976

 MC-93826

 MC-233911 – resolved as "Fixed".

 Jens Bergensten - It's fixed to the point that I can't reproduce it any more. Please update the bug report after the first 1.11 snapshot if you find a way to reproduce it. Obviously the items will jitter slightly depending on client-server lag issues, but items should no longer appear in the wrong locations.

 https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/4w5qla/mc4_the_bug_of_item_drops_sometimes_appearing_at/d66vgxd

 MC-4 – resolved as "Fixed".

 MC-160

 MC-2157