For the Bedrock Edition version of this guide, see Bedrock Edition guides/Spring to Life.

Spring to Life

Edition

Java Edition

Official name

Spring to Life

Version(s)

1.21.5

◄ The Garden AwakensChase the Skies ►

{
    "title": "Spring to Life",
    "images": [],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "''(link to Java Edition article, displayed as Java Edition)''",
            "label": "Edition"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Spring to Life article, displayed as Spring to Life)",
            "label": "Official name"
        },
        {
            "field": "<ul class=\"hlist\"><li>\n* (link to Java Edition 1.21.5 article, displayed as 1.21.5)</li></ul>",
            "label": "Version(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "<span style=\"display:inline-block; padding:0 .4em;\">[[java Edition guides/The Garden Awakens|◄ The Garden Awakens]]</span><span style=\"display:inline-block; padding:0 .4em;\">[[java Edition guides/Chase the Skies |Chase the Skies ►]]</span>"
}

This guide is a simplified overview of all non-experimental changes in Spring to Life (Java Edition 1.21.5), which assumes at least some familiarity with The Garden Awakens (Java Edition 1.21.4), excluding experimental features in this version.

Contents

1 Mobs

1.1 Changed

2 Blocks

2.1 New
2.2 Changed

3 Items

3.1 Changed

4 Biomes

4.1 Changed

5 Structures

5.1 New

6 Gameplay

6.1 Changed

7 Navigation

Mobs
Changed

Name
Image
Changed

Pig, cow and chicken



New mob variants have been added, the variant is determined by the biome they spawn in.
Temperate variant - The pre-existing mob variant.
Spawns by default where the cold and warm variants do not spawn.
Cold variant spawns only in:
Old Growth Pine Taiga
Old Growth Spruce Taiga
Taiga
Snowy Taiga
Windswept Hills
Windswept Gravelly Hills
Windswept Forest
Warm variant spawns only in:
Savanna
Savanna Plateau
Windswept Savanna
Jungle
Sparse Jungle
Bamboo Jungle
Eroded Badlands
Wooded Badlands
Badlands
When bred by a player, a baby variant will not be chosen by the current biome, but instead randomly selected from one of the parents' variants.

Sheep

Changed the rules for sheep coloring to be based on which biome they spawn in:
Common sheep color in cold biomes is black, and uncommon colors are gray, light gray, white and brown.
Common sheep color in warm biomes is brown, and uncommon colors are gray, light gray, white and black.
Sheep colors for temperate biomes is unchanged from current behavior.
Pink sheep are very rare and able to spawn anywhere where sheep can spawn.
Sheep's wool undercoat is now also colored when dyed, matching existing behavior in Bedrock Edition.
Sheep can now eat ferns, Grass and dry grass.

Creaking

Can now be named using name tags.
Named creakings will persist through the day.
However, it will still be torn down if stuck with a player or if it is too far from its heart.
Named creakings are still resistant to all damage, and can communicate with their hearts via particles.

Villager

Cartographers now sell seven new maps which each point to a different village or other structures in a different biome. These maps can help players who want to quickly find a specific location.
Cartographers from different village types will sell a different range of maps and colored banners.

Wandering trader

The changes to wandering trader trades have been moved from experimental features and are now available during normal gameplay.
Wandering traders now have better prices, more trades, and sell larger amounts of many items.
Wandering traders can now buy basic supplies from players.
Wandering traders can offer to buy two items from this list:
Water bottle
Water bucket
Milk bucket
Fermented spider eye
Baked potato
Hay bale
Wandering traders now have a chance of selling these items in addition to their previous trades:
Logs (acacia, birch, dark oak, jungle, oak, spruce, pale oak, or cherry)
Enchanted iron pickaxe
Potion of Invisibility

Zombified piglin

Must now be killed by a player to drop its Player-specific loot.

Camel

Can now rarely spawn in deserts.

General

Farm animals can now spawn in badlands.

Wolf

Added six new sound variants.
The variants are called Classic, Big, Cute, Puglin, Angry, Grumpy, and Sad. The existing wolf sounds are used for the Classic variant.
Wolves receive a random sound variant when they spawn.
Sound variants are not related to texture variants.

Blocks
New

Name
Image
Obtaining
Tool Required
Uses

Leaf litter

Found on the floor of forests, dark forests, and wooded badlands.

Ingredients
Smelting recipe

Any Leaves block

Any

Can be used as fuel.
Can be used in a composter.

Wildflowers

Grows in birch forests, old growth birch forests, and meadows.

Any

Can be placed in four orientations.
Can be crafted into yellow dye.

Ingredients
Crafting recipe

Wildflowers

Firefly bush

Generates in swamps and near rivers.

Any

When it's dark, glowing firefly particles appear around the firefly bush, up to 5 blocks away.
Can be used in the composter, with a 30% chance to add a layer.
Using bone meal on a firefly bush will spawn another firefly bush item.
Emits a light level of 2.
Can be instantly broken without any particular tool.

Bush

Generates in the following biomes:
Plains
Windswept Hills
Windswept Gravelly Hills
Windswept Forest
River
Frozen River
Forest
Birch Forest
Old Growth Birch Forest

Any

They are tinted by the grass color of the biome they are placed in.
Can be used in the composter, with a 30% chance to add a layer.
Using bone meal on a bush will generate a neighboring bush next to it if possible.
Can be instantly broken without any particular tool.

Cactus flower

Has a chance of generating on cactuses in deserts and badlands.

Any

Can be placed on cactus blocks or any block which has center support at the top of the block.
Has a chance of growing on cactus blocks.
If a cactus is one or two blocks high the flower has a 10% chance to grow instead of the cactus getting higher.
If a cactus is three blocks or higher the flower has a 25% chance to grow.
Cactus flowers will only grow if they have space on all four sides.
Can be mined without any tool.
Can be used in the composter, with a 30% chance to add a layer.
Can be used to craft 1 pink dye.

Short and tall dry grass

Generates in the desert and badlands.

Any

Both short and tall variants are one block high.
Can be placed on types of sand, terracotta and dirt blocks like the dead bush.
Can be obtained using shears or a Silk Touch tool.
Can be bone mealed.
Using bone meal on short dry grass grows it into a tall dry grass.
Can be used in the composter, with a 30% chance to add a layer.
Sheep can eat short dry grass to regrow its wool.
Can be used as fuel for smelting, where they smelt half an item.

Test block

Can be received by using commands.

N/A

The test block is a block used for implementing block-based tests. It has four modes:
start: Triggers a redstone pulse when the test starts
log: Logs a message to the log file when powered by redstone
fail: Fails the test when powered by redstone
accept: Completes the test when powered by redstone
Block-based tests are required to have at least one start block and one accept block in the structure.

Test instance block

Can be received by using commands.

N/A

To run a test in a world, a test instance block is used. This type of block represents the test as placed in the world and is used to interact with that test, to save the structure, reset or run the test.
Using the /test command to run or create a test will also place a test instance block to control that test.

Changed

Name
Image
Changed

General

Any block in the simulation distance of a player or loaded by another source of chunk loading (such as ender pearls) may now receive random ticks, instead of just 8 chunks around players.
For example: if a chunk is loaded by an ender pearl or is in the spawn chunks, crops are able to grow, ice can melt, snow can fall, and a cauldron can be filled by rain.
Mob spawning, lava spreading fire, and lightning strikes still occur in the previous radius of 8 chunks around players.

Lodestone

Crafted with iron instead of netherite.
1-3 lodestones can be found in ruined portal chests

Leaves

Generates falling leaf particles.

Bubble column

Produces fewer particles and sounds when entities that are unaffected by them are inside them.

Creaking heart

Correctly placed between Logs have a new dormant texture during the day.
Dormant creaking hearts cannot spawn new creakings and resin.
The transition between the awake and dormant states of creaking hearts is now based on the fixed day time.

Eyeblossom

The transition between the states of eyeblossoms is now based on the fixed day time.

Iron bars, iron block, iron trapdoor,iron door and heavy weighted pressure plate

Added new break, place, step, fall and hit sounds.

End portal

When changing state, any blocks that are in its radius will be dropped as items and also make breaking sounds, rather than outright overwritten.

Beacon

Beacons and their beams now render beyond 16 chunks up to the client render distance.

Items
Changed

Name
Image
Changed

Egg

New variants of the egg has been added.
Blue egg: A variant of the egg laid by the cold chicken variant.
Brown egg: A variant of the egg laid by the warm chicken variant.
Spawns the corresponding chicken variant when hatched.

Saddle

Saddles equipped onto pigs or striders will now maintain properties such as custom name when dropped.
Saddles equipped onto camels and equines (horses, donkeys, mules) now remain visible if the mob equipped with them is inflicted with Invisibility.
Saddles equipped onto camels and equines no longer turn red when the mob wearing it takes damage.
When enchanted now show the enchantment glint on mobs wearing it.
Thorns and Curse of Binding enchantments now work on mobs that are wearing it.

Elytra

Flight is now cancelled when gliding into climbable blocks like ladders, scaffolding, vines etc..

Crossbow

Will now show all charged projectiles in their tooltip instead of just the first.

Spawn egg

Changed the visuals of all spawn eggs to make them easier to distinguish: each type of spawn egg now has its own unique icon instead of all just being colored variants of the same spotted egg.

Biomes
Changed

Name
Image
Changed

Pale garden

Pale garden biome now occupies more space that was previously taken by dark forests.
Woodland mansions can now generate in pale garden biome.

Structures
New

Name
Image
Generates
Chests
Mobs
Description

Fallen tree

Can be found in all biomes where their standing tree variant grow, except the following:
Meadow
Bamboo Jungle
River
Grove
Flower Forest
Has fallen birch trees but not fallen oak trees.

N/A

N/A

Fallen trees are a new decorative variant of trees.
Fallen trees come in four different wood type variants:
Oak
Birch
Jungle
Spruce
Birch fallen trees can come in a shorter version or a longer version.
Some fallen trees can be decorated with mushroom or vines.

Gameplay
Changed

Name
Changed

Narrator

The volume of the narrator is now affected by the game's configured volume in the 'Voice' category.

Navigation