Danger: Scary Mob Spotted in Seas!

Author(s)

Tom Stone

Language

English

Genre(s)

Satirical horror-comedy

Set in

Minecraft

Publisher

Minecraft.net

Release date

July 2, 2018

{
    "title": "Danger: Scary Mob Spotted in Seas!",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Tom Stone article, displayed as Tom Stone)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "English",
            "label": "Language"
        },
        {
            "field": "Satirical horror-comedy",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "''(link to Minecraft article, displayed as Minecraft)''",
            "label": "Set in"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Minecraft.net article, displayed as Minecraft.net)",
            "label": "Publisher"
        },
        {
            "field": "July 2, 2018",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Drowned_with_fishing_rod_(greyscaled).png"
    ]
}

Danger: Scary Mob Spotted in Seas! (stylized in all caps) is a short story written by Tom Stone, published on Minecraft.net.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Characters

2 Quotes
3 Gallery
4 References
5 Navigation

Summary
A new terror has surfaced in Minecraft's oceans with the arrival of the Update Aquatic (Phase One), turning what was meant to be a joyful dive into a watery nightmare. Players now face an unexpected threat—The Drowned, a zombie-like underwater mob that lurks beneath the colorful reefs and playful dolphins.
The article gathers reports from "witnesses" like Sid Plimps, a questionable source who claims he saw a zombie sink into the sea only to reappear as the terrifying drowned. Sid, originally searching for rotten flesh, was horrified by the mob, continuing to scream long after the encounter.
Fisherman Matthew Denton shares a similarly chilling experience. After attempting to retrieve a fishing rod from the sea, he witnessed a sinister figure—"someone wrong"—holding it underwater. The drowned have also been seen wielding weapons like the trident, with one victim mistaking it for a large fork, adding an extra layer of danger for unsuspecting players.
Though the article conveys the lighthearted tone of Minecraft, it warns players of the underwater undead that now haunt the deep seas. Players on Java Edition can already confront this new menace, while others will soon face the drowned as the Update Aquatic rolls out across platforms. Stay cautious—something sinister is beneath the waves.

Characters

Alex
Dolphin
Drowned
Jonathan Quibbles
Matthew Denton
Sid Plimps
Quotes
“Someone wrong. Someone not of this world. Someone evil.„ — Matthew Denton
“Try to stay safe! And keep watching those seas...„ — The final line
Gallery



			Header for the article



			A drowned holding a fishing rod



			Alex fighting several drowned with a trident



			 A drowned holding a trident


References

 "DANGER: SCARY MOB SPOTTED IN SEAS!"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, July 2, 2018.

Navigation