This page only covers DC Studios's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about DC Studios, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.



This article is missing information about: Batman character items 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.

DC Studios

Founder(s)

Geoff Johns
James Gunn
Jon Berg
Peter Safran

Founded

May 17, 2016

Products

Motion pictures
Television series

Parent company

Warner Bros. Discovery

Links

Website

{
    "title": "DC Studios",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Geoff Johns article, displayed as Geoff Johns)\n* (link to wikipedia:James Gunn article, displayed as James Gunn)\n* Jon Berg\n* (link to wikipedia:Peter Safran article, displayed as Peter Safran)",
            "label": "Founder(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 17, 2016",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Motion pictures\n* Television series",
            "label": "Products"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Warner Bros. Discovery article, displayed as Warner Bros. Discovery)",
            "label": "Parent company"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://www.dc.com/ Website]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "DC logo.svg"
    ]
}

DC Studios is an American film and television production company. A subsidiary of Warner Bros. Pictures, it specializes in adaptations of characters published by DC Comics, such as Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, The Flash, Green Lantern, Aquaman, and Martian Manhunter.

Contents

1 Featured franchises

1.1 Batman
1.2 Superman
1.3 Wonder Woman

2 Marketplace releases

2.1 Batman
2.2 Superman

3 Education releases

3.1 Museum Heist

4 Character creator

4.1 Superman

5 Trivia
6 Gallery
7 References
8 Navigation

Featured franchises
Batman
Batman as illustrated on the cover of Batman Vol 1 No. 608.
Created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane, Batman is the secret identity of philanthropist Bruce Wayne. Following the death of his parents as a child, he traveled the world looking for strength, and returned to his hometown of Gotham City becoming a masked superhero. Through his many adventures he has made many enemies, most notably his archenemy the Joker and crime boss the Penguin. Among his allies include Robin, a title shared by many of Bruce's sidekicks, the first of which becoming a hero in his own right, Nightwing.

Superman
Superman as illustrated on the cover of Superman Vol 2 No. 204.Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, Superman is the secret identity of mild mannered reporter Clark Kent. Born on the planet of Krypton to a pair of scientists, he became the sole survivor of its destruction, raised by a kind couple in Smallville. As an adult he became employed by the Daily Planet, falling in love with reporter Lois Lane and befriending the young photographer Jimmy Olsen. Among his enemies include his nemesis Lex Luthor, a bald billionaire who sees Superman as an existential threat against humanity.
In 2025, the film franchise would be rebooted under filmmaker James Gunn, previously known for his work on the Guardians of the Galaxy film series. This film, simply titled Superman, serves as the first installment of the DC Universe shared universe, following the adventures of Superman three years into his career. Throughout the film he's entrusted to look over his cousin's dog, Krypto, and helps take down an international conspiracy with the help of the Justice Gang, made up of Green Lantern, Mr. Terrific, and Hawkgirl.

Wonder Woman
Wonder Woman as illustrated on a cover of Wonder Woman Vol 6 No. 1.Created by William Moulton Marston and H. G. Peter, Wonder Woman is the secret identity of Diana Prince. Born from clay on the paradise island of Themyscira, she was raised by her mother Hippolyta isolated from the rest of Earth. A chance encounter with airman Steve Trevor leads her to leave her home, wielding mystical weapons such as her Lasso of Truth, Bracelets of Submission, and Invisible Jet.
Marketplace releases
Batman



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Superman
To promote the release of the 2025 Superman film, two DLCs were released on the Marketplace. The first, the Superman Skin Pack, was released on July 8, 2025. A map would follow it, featuring several scenarios adapted from the film.

Education releases
Museum Heist
Main article: Museum Heist
Coinciding with the release of Wonder Woman 1984, a map was released on Minecraft Education.

Character creator
Superman

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Price

Creator

Icon

Render

Superman Shirt

File:Superman Shirt Render.png

Tops

Uncommon

Free

Oreville Studios

Superman Cap

File:Superman Cap Render.png

Headwear

Rare

 280 Minecoins

Metropolis Meteors Baseball Helmet

File:Metropolis Meteors Baseball Helmet Render.png

Metropolis Meteors Baseball Jacket

File:Metropolis Meteors Baseball Jacket Render.png

Tops

 240 Minecoins

Mr Terrific Mask

File:Mr Terrific Mask Render.png

Face Items

 120 Minecoins

Mr Terrific Jacket

File:Mr Terrific Jacket Render.png

Outerwear

 280 Minecoins

Hawkgirl Wings

File:Hawkgirl Wings Render.png

Back Items

Epic

 400 Minecoins

Trivia
When the film Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom was released, special artwork of Jason Momoa's Aquaman was released; Momoa was announced to be starring as Garrett in A Minecraft Movie by this time.
Similarly, in a behind the scenes video for the film, Momoa holds a prop trident, referencing his pervious role.
In the official Minecraft game Doki Doki Compatibility Quest: 3, the player can optionally mention being a Batman fan.
During an episode of Overworld Adventures, Sofia Dankis equates herself to Superman.
The design of the MC Experience Cape was inspired by the Batman villain Two-Face.
To promote the release of the Batman DLC, a build challenge was held on Minecraft.net.
Batman has been joked about in several other articles.
One of the actors known for playing Batman, Will Arnett, was a cohost of MINECON Earth 2017. This fact was joked about several times during the show.
Within the Dark Horse Comics series, the protagonist Tyler is shown to be a fan of comic book character "Catman". Although the name is an overt reference to Batman, artwork of the character resembles an anthropomorphic cat in ripped shorts.
Gallery














References

 "Congratulations on the release of your new movie this week Jason Momoa / @prideofgypsiesWe want more Momoa! 👀" – @minecraft on Instagram, December 22, 2023

 "Jason Momoa to Star in 'Minecraft' Movie for Warner Bros."     by Aaron Couch  – The Hollywood Reporter, 18 April 2022.

 "Simply the Best"     by Sofia Dankis  – Minecraft.net, May 12, 2025.

 "7 Hidden Easter Eggs in NEW Minecraft Experience!"  – Rays Works on YouTube, October 20, 2024

 "Build Challenge: Batman"     by Lindsey Schaal  – Minecraft.net, December 12, 2022.

 "New on Java Realms: The Realms Travel Agency"     by Oskar Thysell  – Minecraft.net, June 18, 2021.

 "Block of the Month: Hay Bale"     by Duncan Geere  – Minecraft.net, July 29, 2024.

 "Will Arnett is hosting MINECON Earth!"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, October 19, 2017.

Navigation