This article is about the skin pack in Legacy Console Edition.   For the default skin pack in other editions of Minecraft, see Default Skin Pack.   For the default skins in contemporary versions of Minecraft, see Player.



This feature is exclusive to Legacy Console Edition. 

Default Skin Pack

Skins

18

Price

Free

Release date

May 9, 2012 (as automatically assigned skins)July 13, 2012 (as manually selectable skins)

{
    "title": "Default Skin Pack",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "18",
            "label": "Skins"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 9, 2012 (as automatically assigned skins)<br>July 13, 2012 (as manually selectable skins)",
            "label": "Release date"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

The Default Skin Pack on Legacy Console Edition
The Default Skin Pack is a skin pack consisting of 18 skins included by default in Legacy Console Edition. Most of the skins from this pack were later released in Bedrock Edition as part of the Legacy Skin Pack.
In Legacy Console Edition, if a player has not manually selected a skin to use, they are automatically assigned one of these skins, depending on the order they joined a game (player 1 is Steve, player 2 is Tennis Steve, player 3 is Tuxedo Steve, and so on).
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Tennis Steve, Tennis Alex, Scottish Steve, and Swedish Alex appear as playable alternative costumes of Steve and Alex.

Contents

1 Skins
2 History
3 Gallery

3.1 In other media

4 Navigation

Skins

Name

Render

Description

Notes

Steve

The normal Steve skin.

Used by default as skin for Player 1.

Tennis Steve

Steve with blonde hair wearing a white tennis outfit.

Used by default as skin for Player 2.
This skin is used in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as one of Steve's skins.

Tuxedo Steve

Steve wearing a black tuxedo.

Used by default as skin for Player 3.

Athlete Steve

Dark-skinned Steve wearing jeans, a white tank top and a gold medal.

Used by default as skin for Player 4.
This skin is not included in the Legacy Skin Pack on Bedrock Edition.

Scottish Steve

Steve with red hair wearing a kilt.

This skin is in reference to 4J Studios, the game studio that developed Legacy Console Edition, being based in Scotland.
This skin is used in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as one of Steve's skins.

Prisoner Steve

Steve with white hair wearing orange prison clothing.

Cyclist Steve

Steve with bicycling shorts, a jacket, and shoes.

Boxer Steve

‌[Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 editions  only]

Blonde-haired Steve with red boxing gloves, a golden belt with short red shorts, no shirt, and red and gold boots. The top and bottom arm textures are incorrectly mapped in Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 editions.

Alex

The normal Alex skin.

Tennis Alex

Dark-skinned Alex with black hair wearing a white tennis outfit.

This skin is used in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as one of Steve's skins.

Tuxedo Alex

Alex wearing a black dress.

Athlete Alex

Dark-haired Alex with a red running shirt and red track pants.

This skin is not included in the Legacy Skin Pack on Bedrock Edition.

Swedish Alex

Alex with blonde hair in traditional Swedish attire.

This skin is in reference to Mojang Studios, the developers of Minecraft, being based in Sweden.
This skin is used in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as one of Steve's skins.

Prisoner Alex

Alex with dark hair wearing orange prison clothing.

Cyclist Alex

Alex with blue glasses, black bicycling shorts, a purple jacket, and shoes.

Boxer Alex

Alex with dark skin and brown hair wearing blue boxing gloves, short red shorts, red boots and a sleeveless white shirt.

Developer Alex

Alex wearing a gray Mojang T-shirt.

Developer Steve

Steve wearing a gray Mojang T-shirt.

History
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added the following default skins: Steve, Tennis Steve, Tuxedo Steve, Athlete Steve, Scottish Steve, Prisoner Steve, Cyclist Steve, Boxer Steve.

They are automatically assigned to players based on the order they joined a world.TU3
Players can now manually select which default skin they want to use.TU24CU121.161.161.16
Added the Alex skin and some variants of it: Tennis Alex, Tuxedo Alex, Athlete Alex, Swedish Alex, Prisoner Alex, Cyclist Alex, Boxer Alex.TU46CU361.381.381.38Patch 15
Added Developer Alex and Developer Steve.
Gallery
In other media



			Tennis Steve in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Tennis Alex in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Scottish Steve in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Swedish Alex in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate



			Boxer Alex on the cover of Minecraft Where's the Zombie.






Navigation