"Trial" redirects here.  For other uses, see Trial (disambiguation).
 "Demo" redirects here.  For the old demo version for Pocket Edition, see Pocket Edition Demo.
The message displayed upon loading the demo world in Java Edition
The message displayed upon loading a trial world in Bedrock Edition
The Demo Mode or trial version (Minecraft Trial on Android) is a demo of Minecraft for users who have not purchased the game yet and would like to try it out before making a purchase. It allows players to access singleplayer worlds with a limited amount of playtime, and limited world settings.

Contents

1 Functionality
2 Java Edition
3 Bedrock Edition
4 Pocket Edition
5 Legacy Console Edition
6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition

7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Java Edition
8.2 Bedrock Edition

8.2.1 Historical screenshots
8.2.2 Pocket Edition

9 References
10 See also
11 External links
12 Navigation

Functionality
The demo mode can be played by all players that have not purchased it on their Microsoft/App store account.

The demo version of Java Edition can be played free of charge by logging into the Minecraft Launcher (free download) with a Microsoft account that has not purchased the game yet.
The trial version of Minecraft for Windows (Bedrock Edition) can be downloaded from the Microsoft Store, Xbox app, or Minecraft Launcher if the current Microsoft Store account does not have access to the full version and if the full game is not installed.
The trial versions for PlayStation and Android[verify] can be downloaded at any time.
While demo mode does not expire, it comes with certain restrictions as its sole purpose is to allow new players to try out Minecraft.

Java Edition
The following restrictions apply when playing the game in demo mode:

The demo map is preset and always generates with the same seed: -343522682, corresponding to the text seed North Carolina.
This means that the world spawn, terrain, and generated structures are always the same. This seed spawns the player in a forest with some rivers and taigas nearby. A taiga village generates close in the north, and there are two trail ruins with old growth taigas in the south. Further away are plains valleys with mountain peaks in the west and an ocean in the north.
The game is locked to Survival mode and commands are disabled by default.
Commands can be enabled and other game modes can be made accessible by using Open to LAN.​[until: JE 26.3]
Multiplayer servers are inaccessible, although LAN multiplayer is allowed, with the limitation that only 1 demo account is allowed on a server.
This is because the default Minecraft name "Player" cannot be changed.
The game time is limited to five in-game days (1 hour and 40 minutes real-time or 100 minutes total). After the time runs out, players can still navigate through the world, but their interactions with it are limited. Resetting the demo world also resets the demo timer.
Changing the in-game time forcibly with commands or external programs such as an NBT editor can reset the timer.
It is possible to gain (almost) unlimited time in the demo by changing the in-game time to extreme negative values (past the minimum 64-bit integer limit, which is -9,223,372,036,854,655,508). However, the number causes several problems such as hostile mobs behaving passively to players, and no block placement/breaking.
"Demo" is displayed in the version notation on the title screen.
It is possible to install resource packs and mods on the demo.

Bedrock Edition
The trial version has the following restrictions:

The time limit is 90 minutes in real time, after which the world is locked and a new one must be created.[needs testing]
The player cannot play multiplayer, including LAN multiplayer. On PlayStation, splitscreen multiplayer is possible.
Accessing the Marketplace and Dressing Room is possible, but no purchases can be made.
The player can apply all free features from the Dressing Room, including body customization, default skins, four free emotes, imported custom skins, and owned capes (Pan and Common if signed in).
The player cannot import add-ons, worlds, and world templates. They can still be manually imported to com.mojang but are not usable.
Game settings are not available, except for the difficulty, world name, and file management. All other settings are locked to the default state, except multiplayer and LAN disabled.
The player cannot change the world seed; it is restricted to 1193926712.
For an overview of features in this seed, see Starter Seeds § Trial seeds.
The player cannot access the social drawer, thus disabling player permissions, friends, screenshot gallery (even though screenshots can be taken), and statistics.
However, the social drawer can still be opened with F4 in-game. This allows access to the friends features (except multiplayer), all profile screen features, and changing player permissions.
Disabling and re-enabling operator permissions enables cheats in the world, allowing to change many more game settings such as Creative mode.
Achievements are permanently disabled for all worlds created in trial mode.
It is possible to join Realms through invite links. All features from the full game are available within Realms.
It is also possible to join Realms and external servers through desktop shortcuts.
It is possible to access the Editor. However, this has the same limitations as the regular trial mode for world settings. All editor tools are available.
The Export tool is also available, allowing to make the project available in the regular trial mode with most game settings, like cheats and Hardcore.
Minecraft Preview or the beta version is not available in trial mode.
Exclusive splash texts are shown.
Pocket Edition
A free demo version was available for Pocket Edition versions 0.2.1 and lower, but it wasn't updated to newer versions and was eventually removed from app stores in October 2013. The demo version had these limitations:

There was no world list. Upon clicking the "Start Game" button, the player was asked whether they wanted to play in Survival or Creative mode without any world list being shown. Upon quitting the world, the data would not be saved. Also, seeds could not be used during world creation.
The number of available blocks/items was restricted. Some blocks/items like cobblestone and the sword were not available in the demo version, while others like bricks, planks and all other tools (hoes, pickaxes, axes and shovels) were available.
Legacy Console Edition
Demo mode is supported on all Legacy Console Edition platforms, except for Wii U and Nintendo Switch. However, due to the removal of the PlayStation 4 Edition and Xbox One Edition from digital storefronts after their replacement with Bedrock Edition, as well as the shutdown of the Xbox 360 Marketplace in July 2024, the only demos that can still be downloaded and played in the current day  are those for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita editions (until July 2027). Additionally, Xbox One Edition Trial technically remains available with a few workarounds.​[more information needed]
On PlayStation 3, players who have purchased the full version of the game digitally can also access demo mode by deactivating their console. The game remains in demo mode until the console is re-activated.
The following restrictions apply in demo mode:

The only playable world is the tutorial world. Selecting the "Play Game" button in the main menu immediately starts the tutorial world.
Players cannot save their progress; after exiting the world, all progress that has been made is permanently lost.
Online multiplayer is not available. Only local splitscreen multiplayer is supported.
Mini games are not available. Selecting the "Mini Games" button in the main menu causes the game to instruct the player to purchase the full game.
Players cannot change their skin from the default.
Players cannot change the texture pack from the default.
Achievements or trophies cannot be earned.
Players cannot enable host privileges in the tutorial world. As a result, the game mode is locked to Survival, and the difficulty is locked to Easy.
The only options that can be toggled on or off in the tutorial world are: Fire Spreads, TNT Explodes, Mob Loot, Tile Drops and Natural Regeneration.
The game has a time limit.​[more information needed] After time runs out, players are given the option to either purchase the game and continue their progress, or exit the game and lose their progress.
History
Java Edition
Java Edition1.3.112w16a
Added Demo mode. During the snapshot releases, minecraft.jar must be launched directly with the --demo parameter.1.3.2pre
Users can play the demo mode in minecraft.net.[is this the correct version?]1.7.2
Users can no longer play the demo mode on minecraft.net.November 26, 2013
The latest launcher version (1.3.4) allows players who have not yet bought Minecraft to play the game's demo.1.1217w13a
To reflect the addition of advancements, the startup message was changed to say "Check the advancements for hints" instead of "Check the achievements for hints".1.13?
Changed world spawn point, possible due to the #minecraft:valid_spawn tag.26.1snap5
The "Minecraft Demo Mode" screen has been redesigned.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition Alphav0.2.1
A demo version was released, but was eventually removed from app stores.[is this the correct version?]Windows 10 Edition1.0.0
Added a trial version for the Windows 10 Edition available in the Microsoft Store. It uses the seed 818010429.Bedrock Edition1.2.0
Changed the trial seed to 29300.December 20, 2018
A new demo version for Bedrock Edition called Minecraft Trial is available for download on Android and Windows devices, as well as PlayStation 4 consoles.?
Changed the trial seed to 1395001428.[dubious]1.11.0
Changed the trial seed to 1537846859, the "Forest Glade" seed template.1.18.0
The world generation has been overhauled, making the trial seed appear entirely different.1.18.30
Changed the trial seed to 1193926712.1.21.50
The Editor is now available in stable release and trial mode, allowing to bypass most restrictions.26.10
Added a keybind to open the social drawer, which allows access to online features and cheats in the trial mode.
The settings menu has been updated, allowing access to more settings that were previously locked.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00
A demo version of the game is available for download.
Trivia
In Java Edition, it is possible to play in game modes other than Survival in the demo mode by opening up the world to LAN with cheats enabled and executing /gamemode command. This does not remove the time limit, or the demo message.
In Java Edition, deleting the files  level.dat and  level.dat_old resets the timer. Additionally, a new bonus chest spawns on the original spawn point.
Servers can be started with the --demo argument, causing everyone who joins the server sees the demo message.
The demo mode was added to Java Edition in 1.3.1, and starting older versions from the launcher in demo mode using a non-premium account opens the full versions instead.
If the Minecraft shortcut and directory is moved to another hard drive, etc., it remains in the demo version, and the previous worlds do not appear.
In Java Edition, if a world is downloaded, it can be played by putting the world folder in  saves and renaming it to  Demo_World. If  Demo_World, it must be first renamed or deleted. There is a chance that the demo timer has decreased or expired. This is due to the timer being used by the world's creator while building the world. Deleting  level.dat and  level.dat_old in such situations does not reset the timer.
Gallery
Java Edition



			The demo world



			The title screen in demo mode



			The contents of the bonus chest



			A ruined portal on a beach near an old growth birch forest at demo mode. Notice the timer at the top right.



			A screenshot containing a snowy taiga, a taiga, a frozen river, and a slight part of a village taken in demo mode. Notice the timer again at the top right.



			The message displayed upon loading the demo world in 1.21.11 and lower.


Bedrock Edition



			The title screen in trial mode



			The "Get started" title screen in trial mode



			The world creation screen in trial mode. A noticeable difference is a trial notice and the "Survival" and "Creative" buttons are disabled, as well as the "Hardcore" toggle.



			The message displayed upon loading the trial world



			The trial world



			An overview of the current trial world



			Different angle



			The game menu in trial mode



			The purchase screen for the full game



			Minecraft Trial app icon


Historical screenshots



			The Create New World menu in trial mode before 1.18



			The game menu in trial mode before 1.21.120



			The first trial seed



			The second trial seed



			The last trial seed, aka the "Forest Glade" seed template


Pocket Edition



			The title screen of the Pocket Edition demo.



			The gamemode selection screen in the Pocket Edition demo, which was immediately shown when Start Game was selected.



			The inventory as shown in the Pocket Edition demo, with unlocked items at the top and locked items at the bottom.



			Minecraft — Pocket Edition Demo app icon



			Minecraft — Pocket Edition Lite app icon


References

 MC-73758 – Can use Setblock in demo after expire – resolved as "Won't Fix".

 "An update on PlayStation Store for PS3 and PS Vita"     by Sid Shuman  – PlayStation Blog, July 1, 2026.

 "Evolution of Bedrock Edition Demo Seed"     – Minecraft Forum.

See also
Starter Seeds — an overview of all Bedrock Edition trial seeds and starter seeds.
Pocket Edition Demo — the first known developmental version of Minecraft: Pocket Edition.
Java Edition Demo (PC Gamer)
External links
Official website
Microsoft Store (Windows)
Google Play (Android)
PlayStation Store (PlayStation 4)
Navigation