This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition. 



This  topic  is currently lost. 
While this release is known to exist, it is not currently available legally or heavily documented, and is therefore considered lost



This article would benefit from the addition of more images. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable images to the article.The specific instructions are: Recreations of item sprites

Throughout several events such as MINECON and Minecraft LIVE, demo content has been shown but not released to the public to demonstrate features that can be used in worlds.

Contents

1 Minecon

1.1 Creative Tools
1.2 Super Hero
1.3 Penguin map

2 Minecraft Live

2.1 Tomatoes

2.1.1 Additions

2.2 Golden Skull adventure
2.3 Sci-fi Parkour
2.4 Entity Wizard mobs
2.5 Create Your Own Mob with Blockbench!

3 Blockbench Feature Hype

3.1 Cake Golem Add-On
3.2 Motorcycle Add-On

4 Quotes
5 Videos
6 Gallery
7 References
8 Navigation

Minecon
Creative Tools
Featured during MINECON Live 2019, the Creative Tools were created by to be used by Marketplace developers. The tools created by G2Crafted are available for download (behavior pack and resource pack).

 Editor Stick
Created by Mineplex Miste
Similar to the debug stick, but with a user interface
Demonstrated changing the colors of wool, oak logs to birch, and alternating between beetroot growth stages
TNT Wand
Created by G2Crafted
Removes blocks in a 5x3x4 radius, with explosion particles
Doesn't break torches
Ultimate Miner
Created by G2Crafted
Similar to the TNT Wand, but creates a massive tunnel, about four blocks tall
Doesn't break coal ore or torches
Ultimate Miner
Created by G2Crafted
Generates a house structure made of oak planks and cobblestone when lit
Ignited by flint and steel, like regular TNT
Ultimate Miner
Created by G2Crafted
Generates a house structure made of dark oak logs and white wool when lit
Ignited by flint and steel, like regular TNT
Hook
Created by destruc7i0n
Generates a rope bridge when used
Super Hero
Showcased during the same segment as the Creative Tools, Super Hero was a map developed by Shapescape, which took advantage of the previously featured mechanics. The map gave players the ability to use several superpowers through the inventory, including an evolution of the endermen's teleportation, a "magic missile" used to fight skeletons, and an energy shield that can be placed on the ground.

Penguin map



This  section  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

Following Super Hero, a map developed by Jason Major was showcased where the player model is replaced by a penguin, with the sprinting animation becoming a belly slide.

Minecraft Live
Tomatoes
Presented at Minecraft Live 2020, the Tomatoes add-on consisted of a tomato crop, which can be collected similar to sweet berries and thrown. If left unattended, the crop will begin to rot, and spawn in a "rotten tomato monster," which throws rotten tomatoes, also projectiles but with a shorter distance and higher knockback.

Additions
Tomato
Player can throw
 Rotten Tomato Monster
Hostile
Throws tomatoes
appears when tomatoes begin to rot
Tomato Crops
Have five stages of maturity
Golden Skull adventure



This  section  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

Following the Tomato demonstration, an adventure map set in a desert was shown. The player was given a golden skull item and lightning sword, the former being used to activate a pedestal, which opened a cave in a "hollow mountain." Inside were several husks, riding scorpions, which could be attacked by hitting them with the sword, which generates actual lightning.
The map was designed to showcase several then new features, such as items being locked to the inventory so they can't be lost.

Sci-fi Parkour



This  section  is named by the community. 
An official name has not been given. Please update the name if confirmed by reliable sources.

Following the Tomato and adventure map demonstrations, a second map was revealed, described as a "sci-fi, parkour course." The map is a simple parkour course, set on metallic platforms with a ladder trick, and then a "slimenator" item which converts blocks to slime blocks when thrown. After using a teleporter, the player continues through to another area with a slight elevation, before another puzzle solved with a "blockinator." This item creates a small platform of slabs to help traverse, similar to the hook. Upon reaching a platform, a chest is found containing a "levitation cyberdog" and antidote, the former granting levitation, wither, poison, and nausea, while the latter heals all but levitation.
A third section follows, containing a wall which can be broken with a wand and 17 magic gems, which function like a bow and arrow. The final teleporter pad is blocked off, requiring the player to climb up a ladder and fall on top of the block blocking the path. Upon completing the map, the player will be transported into a room with a FannyVH NPC and a final chest, with text appearing displaying the amount of times the player died.

Entity Wizard mobs
Demonstrated by Jannis, the creator of Blockbench, at Minecraft Live 2021, the butterfly and grizzly bear were simple add-ons created to demonstrate the release of the Entity Wizard. Minecraft Live co-hosts Fanny Vadillo Herrera and Quinn also demonstrated simple mobs of their own, showing off wolf variants modeled after her dogs and a sentient tree named Evelyn Evergreen respectively, one made from reskinning a mob and the other from scratch. Afterwards, Lydia Winters demonstrated a mob she made herself, the "aloto," a hybrid of an axolotl and alligator.

Create Your Own Mob with Blockbench!
Main article: Minecraft Live 2022 Sample Pack
During Minecraft Live 2022, several mobs created with Entity Wizard were showcased. Many of them would be released in an add-on following the broadcast, but not all of them were included. These include creature3, Bombie, the Pumpkin King, and a humanoid banana designed by Daniel Middleton.

Blockbench Feature Hype
The Blockbench Feature Hype videos, also known as Minecraft Tutorial Series, were a series of videos demonstrating the Entity Wizard feature on Blockbench. At least two videos were created by Patrick Rodes, both featuring separate add-ons: a "cake golem" using a snow golem as a basis, and a motorcycle ridden by Makena.

Cake Golem Add-On
 Cake Golem
Was made from modifying snow golem AI, and so behaves similarly
Has 2HP health points
Drops three stacks of sugar when defeated
Motorcycle Add-On
 Motorcycle
Animated
Moves at low speed
Quotes
“The Cake Golem, made to demonstrate the new drop-table editor feature of the Entity Wizard, drops stacks of Sugar when defeated.„ — Cake Golem ArtStation description
Videos













Gallery



			Banana



			Bombie



			Creature3



			Pumpkin King



			Cake Golem render



			Cake Golem in a game



			Render of Motorcycle



			Butterfly



			Grizzly



			Evelyn Evergreen



			Aloto



			Rotten Tomato Monster



			From the official Minecraft twitter account.


References

 "MINECON Live 2019: Creative Tools in Minecraft Bedrock"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 2, 2019

 "Minecon live tools by G2 Crafted free Downloads just type in  /function g2items1  or /function g2items2  https://mediafire.com/file/gkeqhydwsglwloo/G2_Crafted_Behav.mcpack/file  http://mediafire.com/file/x28hm1f83vab99y/G2_Crafted_Resou.mcpack/file  #Minecraft We are making 3x the amount of tools coming to the Market Place. Just Follow us for More info! #MineconLive"  – @g2crafted  on X (formerly Twitter), September 28, 2019

 "MINECON Live 2019: Creative Tools in Minecraft Bedrock"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 2, 2019

 "MINECON Live 2019: Creative Tools in Minecraft Bedrock"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 2, 2019

 "MINECON Live 2019: Creative Tools in Minecraft Bedrock"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 2, 2019

 "Minecraft Live: Creator Tools"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 16, 2020

 "Minecraft Live: Creator Tools"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 16, 2020

 "Minecraft Live: Creator Tools"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 16, 2020

 "Minecraft Live 2021: Minecraft Marketplace"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 22, 2021

 "Minecraft Live 2021: Minecraft Marketplace"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 22, 2021

 "Minecraft Live 2022: Create Your Own Mob with Blockbench!"  – Minecraft on YouTube, October 22, 2022

 "Cake Golem Blockbench Tutorial"     by Patrick Rodes  – ArtStation, July 15, 2024.

 "Animation Presets Blockbench Tutorial"     by Patrick Rodes  – ArtStation, July 15, 2024.

Navigation