This feature is exclusive to Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education. 



This article is missing information about: 2025 update 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.



This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.  The specific instructions are: Renders of NPCs

Dexi Ville

Map maker(s)

Shapescape

Price

Free

Release date

May 24, 2024

Tags

Animal
Beautiful
Adventures
Animals
World
Choose Your Own Adventure
Experience
Word Game

Genre(s)

Educational
Language

Players

Single player (1)

Website page

Dexi Ville in Minecraft Marketplace

{
    "title": "Dexi Ville",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "[https://www.shapescape.com/ Shapescape]",
            "label": "Map maker(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Free",
            "label": "Price"
        },
        {
            "field": "May 24, 2024",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "<div style=\"\" class=\"collapsible collapsed collapsetoggle-inline \">\n\n<div class=\"collapsible-content \" style=\"\">Animal<br>\nBeautiful<br>\nAdventures<br>\nAnimals<br>\nWorld<br>\nChoose Your Own Adventure<br>\nExperience<br>\nWord Game\n</div>\n</div>",
            "label": "Tags"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* Educational\n* Language",
            "label": "Genre(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "Single player (1)",
            "label": "Players"
        },
        {
            "field": "[https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=000dcb9d-6cf6-4d18-bb0d-cf5061f9592a Dexi Ville in Minecraft Marketplace]",
            "label": "Website page"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "DV Screenshot 0.jpg"
    ]
}
Key art.
Dexi Ville is a Minecraft Education "wordcraft" world created in partnership with the Swedish Prince Couples' Foundation, Prinsparets Stiftelse. The map is designed to teach reading skills to children, including words, letters, and sentences. It can also be played through the Marketplace.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Read And Feed
1.2 Ponder The Letter
1.3 What a day! But what day..?
1.4 Mind The Mine
1.5 Library

2 Quotes

2.1 External

2.1.1 Getting started with Dexi Ville

2.2 Never Ending Book

3 Videos
4 History
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Renders
6.2 Official artwork
6.3 Promotional images
6.4 Photographs
6.5 Screenshots

7 External links
8 References
9 Navigation

Summary
The Hub.
The map opens with the player spawning in Dexi Ville, before Dexi the Hedgehog. Before talking to her, she will give you two language options: English or Swedish. After selecting a language, Dexi will welcome you into her village, introducing herself as the "story keeper" of the town. As she puts it, her job is to "guide every visitor to fulfill their story," in the player's case they are tasked with filling in a "never ending book." In order to fill the book, the player must win various minigames, gradually unlocking four different locations that can be warped to on command. Alternatively, the player can manually walk to every location, guided by a directory beside Dexi. As a third option, the directory itself can also teleport the player by hitting any of the locations.

Read And Feed
The Barn.
The first location the player can visit is a vacant barn, full of stripped oak pillars, coarse dirt, and hay bales. In front of the player after warping is a rabbit named Hopper, who asks for your help to feed various animals. Around Hopper are four white concrete spots where animals such as cows, chickens, frogs and pandas will appear, stationary. Above Hopper is the name of a specific animal that needs to be fed. The player will have a "food bag" item, the goal being to feed the correct animal by using the item on them.

Ponder The Letter
The River.
The second location the player can visit is a large river with noticeable moss and mossy cobblestone. Sitting on a spruce log is a bear named Björn, who loves fishing by the river and "the silence of nature." Excitedly, Björn mentions various objects "hidden in the river," and asks for the player to help him fish. In practice, this is not a fishing minigame, but instead a matching game. Various objects will appear on lily pads, with a letter block appearing above them. The player will be instructed to match the letter with the object; for example, blueberries are needed when a B block appears, while an apple is the solution to an A block. In order to select the item, the player can use or hit them from a distance.

What a day! But what day..?
The Theater.
The third location the player can visit is an outdoor theater in a taiga, with acacia stair chairs and flowers resembling oxeye daisies scattered around. On the stage the player will find Luna the wolf, who will ask for help ordering activities for her diary pages. This minigame will be simple, Luna will tell a story with many key objects pivotal to certain times of the day. After listening to the story, the player will have to place the correct items in a certain order. For example, Luna will wake up in the morning and decide to stay in her house, before collecting blueberries during the day, and planting flowers during the evening. This will clue the player to place a house item, blueberry item, and flower item in item frames.

Mind The Mine
The Mine.
The final location the player can visit is a mine, located inside a large birch building, identifiable by several lanterns and copper blocks outside. Descending down a dirtied, old flight of stairs, the player will find a large copper mine, with the player finding an owl named Barak, who claims to work in the mine all day and night. Using their "strong beak," they can mine ores with ease, but appreciate some assistance. This minigame will involve mining various "letter minerals" using a diamond pickaxe, and have to use them to spell the name of an object above a hole. For example, a car, a pencil, or a banana.

Library
The Library.
Although not a minigame, the player can also warp to a library, where they will find the Never Ending Book. It will be displayed on a lectern between two ochre froglights, and will gradually grow in size the more the player plays or replays minigames.

Quotes
External
“The journey of learning to read is different for everyone. Dexi and her friends welcome anyone who needs encouragement on that journey! Build your reading confidence, block by block in Dexi Ville. Unlock the animals’ undiscovered stories and collect pages for a never-ending book – if that’s even possible? There is only one way to find out!„ — Minecraft Marketplace description
Getting started with Dexi Ville
“Meet Dexi, a delightful hedgehog who adores stories. They love to listen to their grandma's tales and read books. Dexi dreams of preserving every tale in a massive volume known as The Never-ending Book.They invite all the animals in Dexi Ville to share their stories, which Dexi eagerly records. Dexi believes these stories make the village more fun and colorful. Always the life of any gathering, Dexi is talkative and outgoing, and they are known for organizing the village's Midsummer festivities„ — Getting started with Dexi Ville
“Meet Hopper, a chill and relaxed rabbit who loves taking it easy on the farm. They enjoy lounging around, and they’re happiest when friends lend a hand with the feeding tasks. Hopper finds joy in the rhythmic and rhyming texts of poetry and songs, which they share through interactive games that mix wordplay and leisurely activities.Now, Hopper wants to help other kids find delight in reading at their own pace. They teach them how to rhyme, sing, and explore words in fun and laid-back ways.„ — Getting started with Dexi Ville
“Meet Björn, a big and cheerful bear who lives by the pond. Known for their love of nature and puns, Björn explores the outdoors, jotting down names of plants and animals in their notebook. They find joy in learning and sharing funny twists on words. Though they face challenges with reading, Björn sees it as just another adventure, steadily improving at their own pace.In their game, they teach players to match the first letter of a word with a picture of something that starts with that letter, adding a dash of humor to help
them remember. Björn encourages everyone to look closely and enjoy the beauty around them, showing that learning can be filled with laughter„ — Getting started with Dexi Ville“Luna is a gentle wolf who deeply loves stories. They run a small theater in Dexi Ville, a cozy place where they feel comfortable sharing their passion with children. Although Luna is shy and takes time to open up, they have found a special way to connect through the magic of storytelling.Luna learned many tales during their quiet travels around the world. Using costumes, props, and music, they bring these stories to life on stage, creating an enchanting experience that teaches important lessons. Luna hopes to help children remember these stories, offering them a quiet space to enjoy and learn.„ — Getting started with Dexi Ville
“Meet Barak, a wise and seasoned owl who loves learning and sharing knowledge. They have visited many places and are brimming with stories. Now residing in Dexi Ville, Barak helps children play with words in a fun way.They design games that let you hear letters and piece them together, offering a blend of fun and education. Barak, a bit old-fashioned and quite talkative, is wise beyond their years and eager to share their interests.„ — Getting started with Dexi Ville
Never Ending Book



This section is missing information about: Book passages and emojis 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.

Videos









History
2022
A precursor to Dexi Ville, "The Great Adventure" is released.Bedrock EditionMay 24, 2024
Dexi Ville is released on the Marketplace.Minecraft EducationMay 24, 2024
Dexi Ville is released on Minecraft Education.June 10, 2024
Dexi Ville is updated.June 15, 2025
Dexi Ville is updated, adding a new minigame.
Trivia
For whatever reason, goats in the Read And Feed minigame will be missing their horns.
Despite releasing after Bedrock Edition 1.20.50, bats use their original model.
The names of the minigame are never given in the map itself, instead only a promotional article.
Dexi's gender appears to be inconsistent or fluid; they are referred to as female in the Marketplace description, male on the Education website's page, and with neutral pronouns in a supplementary document.
In order to promote the map, an official mascot costume of Hopper was created and used at several publicity events.
By 2025, the map had been downloaded 2.3 million times.
Gallery
Renders



			ÄDexi



			Hopper



			Björn



			Luna



			Barak


Official artwork



			Higher quality version of the key art.



			Hopper, Luna, Dexi, Björn, and Barak.



			Overhead shot of Dexi Ville.



			Artwork of every character.


Promotional images



			Panorama for the map, featuring Björn, Barak, Dexi, Luna, and Hopper.



			A player being comforted by the various characters of the map,



			Overhead shot of Dexi Ville, the location.



			A player with Dexi at the Hub.



			Playing Ponder the Letter.



			Playing Read and Feed.



			Placing a hat.






Photographs



			Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden at Mojang Studios for the launch of Dexi Ville.



			A ceremony during Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia's visit.



			A couch in Mojang Studios.



			A group photo from Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia's visit.















			A child and Prince Carl Phillip interacting with Hopper.







			Princess Sophia obscuring a cardboard cutout of Hopper.















			The Hopper mascot costume with many children, cheering.



			Sign promoting Dexi Ville at Kungsholmens Internationella Bibliotek.



			Mind the Mine being played on a projector.



			The map being played at an outdoors event.



			A mascot costume of Hopper reading.


Screenshots

External links
Dexi Ville: The Wordcraft Adventure on Minecraft Education
Dexi Ville on Shapescape.com
References

 "Welcome to Dexi Ville for Minecraft"     by the Prince Couple’s Foundation  – education.minecraft.net, May 30, 2024.

 "Yesterday we launched our new game Dexi Ville, The Wordcraft Adventure in Minecraft Education."     by Prinsparets Stiftelse  – LinkedIn, May 31, 2024.

 "På fredag och lördag är Prinsparets Stiftelse äntligen på plats på Nordea Open!"     by Prinsparets Stiftelse  – LinkedIn, July 9, 2024.

 "Since its launch on #MinecraftEdu, Dexi Ville has been downloaded over 2.3 million times worldwide! ✨ Play in a world designed to enhance reading skills, and celebrate the anniversary with two brand-new minigames that incorporate mathematics!"  – @PlayCraftLearn  on X (formerly Twitter), June 16, 2025

 "We were honored last Thursday to host Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden at Mojang Studios for the launch of Dexi Ville, a new Minecraft world created in partnership with the Swedish Prince Couples' Foundation, Prinsparets Stiftelse."     by Mojang Studios  – LinkedIn, June 3, 2024.

 "Welcome to Dexi Ville for Minecraft"     by Mia Forsäng  – pulse.microsoft.com, June 9, 2024.

 "Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia attended the launch of Dexi Ville"     by Helen  – newmyroyals.com, May 31, 2024.

 "Idag startade sommar med Dexi Ville på Kungsholmens Internationella Bibliotek."     by Prinsparets Stiftelse  – LinkedIn, July 17, 2024.

 "Det är så roligt att se att det är så många som kommer till stugbyn, hälsar på Hopper"     by Prinsparets Stiftelse  – LinkedIn, July 12, 2024.

 "På fredag och lördag är Prinsparets Stiftelse äntligen på plats på Nordea Open!"     by Prinsparets Stiftelse  – LinkedIn, July 9, 2024.

Navigation