This article is about the explorable dimensions accessible within the game.   For the definition of dimensions in data packs, see Dimension definition.   For other uses, see Dimension (disambiguation).

The three dimensions in the game (left to right): The Nether, The End, and the Overworld
Dimensions are parallel worlds within a Minecraft world characterized by a way of generation, biomes and structures, and other things unique to one dimension. Each dimension is its own separate 3D space, not affecting other dimensions. Players can explore and discover various dimensions in Minecraft, typically through the use of portals. Content creators can also make custom dimensions to explore in Minecraft.
The daylight cycle and weather may work differently or not exist in different dimensions, as well as respawn points (such as beds and respawn anchors).

Contents

1 Overworld
2 The Nether
3 The End
4 Custom dimensions
5 Unimplemented dimensions

5.1 Sky Dimension
5.2 Dream Dimension

6 History

6.1 Java Edition
6.2 Bedrock Edition
6.3 Legacy Console Edition
6.4 New Nintendo 3DS Edition

7 Issues
8 References
9 Navigation

Overworld
Main article: Overworld
Different grassland biomes and water bodies in the Overworld
The Overworld is the primary dimension in Minecraft. It has a wide variety of unique biomes to explore, and is easily the most diverse of the dimensions. Players typically spend most of their time in this dimension.
Unique features of the Overworld include:

Surface and underground biomes
Oceans containing water
The most amount of ores
Many naturally generated structures
The most types of mobs
A daylight cycle
Weather
Sleeping in a bed skips the night and sets spawn point (explodes when used in other dimensions)
Sky features and atmospherics
A larger vertical height of 384 blocks
The Nether
Main article: The Nether
A crimson forest and warped forest seperated by the lava sea in the Nether
The Nether is a hot dimension where lava flows equivalent to water's flow characteristics. It is so hot that water evaporates and wet sponges dry out the instant they are placed. The ground mainly consists of netherrack, but soul sand covers the surface of soul sand valleys, and the basalt deltas consist of basalt and blackstone. A player can go to the Nether by entering a Nether portal in the Overworld. In most biomes, hostile mobs spawn and attack players, although in the warped forest only endermen spawn who don't attack players unless provoked.
Unique features of the Nether include:

Using a respawn anchor sets spawn point and consumes a charge should death occur (explodes when used in other dimensions).
Oceans containing lava
1 block pockets of lava
Cave-like terrain
Nether quartz ore, Nether gold ore, and ancient debris
A ceiling and floor of bedrock
Huge fungi in the crimson forests and warped forests
Fog color shifts for certain biomes
Piglins to barter with
Bastion remnants guarded by piglin brutes
Nether fortresses guarded by wither skeletons and blazes
The End
Main article: The End
The central island in the End
The End is a space-like dimension with floating End stone islands, accessible with an End portal in a stronghold. In its center, there is a large lone island on which the ender dragon fight takes place; the outer islands are about a thousand blocks of void away from it. The End is a barren environment, but it is the place where some of the most unique and useful items in the game can be obtained, such as the elytra or shulker boxes.
Unique features of the End include:

Floating islands with access to the void
End crystals igniting the block upon which they're placed on fire
End flashes and a black pixel sky
End cities guarded by shulkers
End gateways to access the outer islands
One of the main bosses in the game, the ender dragon
Custom dimensions
An example of a custom dimension with modified colors and calcite instead of stone
Main article: Custom dimension
Using data packs, it is possible to create custom dimensions and dimension types that have different biomes, world generation and properties from the regular dimensions.‌[Java Edition  only]
Using add-ons, it is possible to create custom dimensions however, currently it is only possible to control scripts and there is no world generation. Each custom dimension is similar to an Overworld void world generation, with same height limit.

Unimplemented dimensions
A view of the unimplemented Sky Dimension
Sky Dimension
Main article: Sky Dimension
The sky dimension was a scrapped dimension that would have contained floating land masses and was planned to be added in the Adventure Update. Eventually, the code for the sky dimension was repurposed for The End instead.

Dream Dimension
Main article: Bedrock Edition mentioned features § World generation
In a Twitch livestream, the developers briefly mentioned the idea of a "dream dimension" that would be exclusive to Pocket Edition.

History



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.

Java Edition
Java Edition pre-ClassicCave game tech test
Added the Overworld.Java Edition Indev20100212-1210
Added the daylight cycle to the Overworld.Java Edition Alphav1.2.0
Added the Nether.Java Edition1.0.0Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4
Added the End.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition AlphaDemo
Added the Overworld.v0.12.1build 1
Added the Nether.Pocket Edition1.0.0alpha 0.17.0.1
Added the End.Bedrock Edition26.20ExperimentBeta APIsPreview 26.20.26
Custom dimensions can now be created through a new scripting registry. Currently, the build limits for registered dimensions is -512 to 512.26.30ExperimentBeta APIsPreview 26.30.27
Custom dimensions no longer have a height of -512 to 512, but rather the standard height of the Overworld, being from -64 to 320.26.30Preview 26.30.29
Custom dimensions through scripting have moved to stable.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU1CU11.001.001.00Patch 11.0.1
Added the Overworld and the Nether.TU9
Added the End.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition
New Nintendo 3DS Edition0.1.0
Added the Overworld and the Nether.1.7.10
Added the End.
Issues
Issues relating to "Dimension" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

References

 "@JPwanabe It has been rebranded to be The End realm"  – @jeb_ (Jens Bergensten) on X (formerly Twitter), October 12, 2011

 "Minecraft: Pocket Edition & Minecraft: Windows 10 Edition Q&A"  – Minecraft on Twitch, October 7, 2015

Navigation