This article is about the YouTube videos.   For the migration process, see Java account migration.

The Dinnerbone migration campaign was a marketing promotion for the Java account migration, in which Nathan Adams portrayed a fictionalized, comedic version of himself to encourage players to migrate their accounts.Contents

1 Installments

1.1 Java Account Migration: A Fun Announcement by Dinnerbone

1.1.1 Summary
1.1.2 Characters
1.1.3 Settings

1.2 Java Account Move: A Fun Visit from Dinnerbone

1.2.1 Summary
1.2.2 Characters
1.2.3 Settings

2 Quotes

2.1 External
2.2 Transcript

3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Official artwork
4.2 Screenshots
4.3 Thumbnails

5 External links
6 Navigation

Installments
Java Account Migration: A Fun Announcement by Dinnerbone

Java Account Migration





Type

Public service announcement

Date

October 21, 2020

Length

2:06

Host(s)

Nathan Adams

{
    "title": "Java Account Migration",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Public service announcement",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "October 21, 2020",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:06",
            "label": "Length"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Nathan Adams article, displayed as Nathan Adams)",
            "label": "Host(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Summary
Dinnerbone is hosting an event, labeled as "Minecraft Account Movement and You *An Uplifting Talk from Dinnerbone", where he is promptly rotated normally by a security guard before starting a speech. Saying they intend to make Minecraft more secure, he explains they will move all PC Minecraft games to one account, and add two-factor authentication, for free. Villagers seem pleased with this news, but an enderman teleports away, startling everyone present. Dinnerbone stresses that the change is positive, but someone claiming to "represent the modding community" asks if this will mean the end of mods or custom skins. He says no, and a pig speaks in response with a comically deep voice, which the surrounding audience applauds.
Suddenly, someone claiming to "lead the armies of the PvP community" marches in with many other players, demanding to know how this will effect PvP. Dinnerbone, confused, just says it won't, and that satisfies them. Another person asks how to move their account, as well as what the meaning of life is. Dinnerbone dodges the latter question but clarifies that another video will come out in the following months to elaborate on the process. A creeper then asks if it will have to pay to migrate, exploding with joy when Dinnerbone assures people they won't charge anything. Another player asks how any of this is fun, to which Dinnerbone excitedly says he'll teach everyone about two-factor authentication. Hearing crickets, Dinnerbone then shows off the Migrator cape.
As everyone leaves, Dinnerbone continues to lecture.

Characters

Bandit
Creeper
Dinnerbone
Dinnerbone's Security Guard
Enderman
Farmer
Gardener
Ghast
Leader of the Armies of the PvP Community
Mime
Miner
Modded Pig
Modded Player
Monk
Peasant
Plains Cartographer
Plains Librarian
Plains Nitwit
Plains Shepherd
Plains Villager
Rogue
Strong Man
Thief
Witch
Settings
Plains
Plains Village
Town Hall
Java Account Move: A Fun Visit from Dinnerbone

Java Account Move





Type

Public service announcement

Date

November 24, 2021

Length

2:15

Host(s)

Nathan Adams

{
    "title": "Java Account Move",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Public service announcement",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "November 24, 2021",
            "label": "Date"
        },
        {
            "field": "2:15",
            "label": "Length"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to Nathan Adams article, displayed as Nathan Adams)",
            "label": "Host(s)"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": []
}

Summary
Dinnerbone is walking down a road, preparing himself to smile convince Java players to move to a Microsoft account. He brings up the cape, assuring himself that it isn't a bribe. He arrives at a house, oblivious to a vindicator chasing a fletcher in the background. Ringing the doorbell, he tries to help someone migrate, but is immediately shut down without a word. He moves onto a castle structure, ringing a bell block, and is greeted by a ghast. He goes to another house, and is nearly burned by lava. He goes to yet another house, and is spat on by a llama, but gets an idea when he cleans himself off with the cape.
Returning to the first house, he's mistaken for a fictional player named LunchMuscle, but quickly assures the homeowner that he is not. The homeowner explains that "some joker" is bothering them for their personal information, which Dinnerbone clarifies will not happen with migration, while one of his security guards apprehends LunchMuscle. After linking them to Minecraft.net, they take the cape and agree to migrate. Appearing at a new house, Dinnerbone greets a father, who mistakes him for a birthday clown. He is asked if he is the clown, and doesn't know how to respond. Dinnerbone then arrives at a house labeled "Premium Sweet Premium," where a premium player lives. He stresses that everyone, even oldest players, must migrate their account, to which the premium player claims to have "seen the first sun rise over the Overworld," wanting to "see the last," thus accepting Dinnerbone's "quest." After giving them their cape, a llama spits in Dinnerbone's face again.

Characters

Bee
Brown Trader Llama
Chicken
Cow
Creeper
Dad
Dinnerbone
Dinnerbone's Security Guard
Dinnerbone's Second Security Guard
Enderman
Ghast
Homeowner
LunchMuscle
Playful Panda
Pig
Plains Butcher
Plains Farmer
Plains Fletcher
Plains Nitwit
Premium Player
Red Fox
Vindicator
White Rabbit
White Sheep
Settings

Castle
Lava House
Plains
File:AreaSprite player-village.pngPlayer Village
Premium Sweet Premium
Red House
Family's House
Quotes
External
“Hear ye, hear ye! Some important changes are coming to Minecraft: Java Edition accounts, and Dinnerbone is here to tell you all about it. Listen to his uplifting speech about how transitioning to a Microsoft account will make playing more convenient and secure, without changing the Java Edition you know and love.„ — A Fun Announcement video description“Knock, knock. Who’s there? It’s Dinnerbone, with more detailed information about moving your Java account! Find out how to safely move your account, where to find information, and – oh who are we kidding? It’s all about how to get your free cape!„ — A Fun Visit video description
Transcript

[TRUMPET FANFARE ] [sic]
[Nathan "Dinnerbone" Adams] Alright, do I look ready?
Perhaps a small suggestion, sir.
[PIANO MUSIC]
Ah, I've been waiting years for someone to do that!
Hello everyone! Today I'm here to announce how we're making Minecraft more secure.
We're moving all of our Java players from Mojang accounts to Microsoft accounts.
This will mean a more secure Minecraft Java for everyone.
[Villagers] Hrrmm.
Trust me, this is a positive move, and nothing you like about Minecraft is going to change.
Any questions?
Dinnerbone! We represent the modding community.
Will this mean no more Java mods or custom skins?
Of course not! You can still make custom skins and mod Minecraft however you like.
Did you mod his answer?
No, that was his actual answer.
[CROWD CHEERS]
Dinnerbone! I lead the armies of the PVP community!
We demand to know how this will affect PVP!
It won't.
Then we are satisfied, and shall leave immediately!
Nathan, how do I move my Java account and what's the meaning of life?
Great questions! I'll just cover the first one.
We'll have a follow-up video in the coming months that explains how to
migrate your account and an in-depth guide on minecraft.net.
[CREEPER HISSES]
No, never!
[CREEPER HISSES]
Nathan, I thought this was supposed to be a fun announcement?
Well, what could be more fun than learning about two-factor authentication?
[CRICKETS]
Okay .... well to thank players for migrating their accounts
we'll also be giving them a free cape!
[APPLAUSE]
[Dinnerbone] Hey! Don't forget about all the security features,
and all the benefits of migrating.
It's not just the cape!

Just smile and explain that Java players need to-
move to a Microsoft account.
Don’t forget the capes.
It’s not a bribe.
Technically.
Cape, cape, cape. Don't foget the capes.
I’m Dinnerbone and I’m here to help you move your java-
-account.
[Door bell]
[Ghast screaming]
Ah!
Lava!
Llama.
Ah!
Don’t suppose I can interest you in a cape?
Who are you? Are you LunchMuscle?
No, I’m D-i-n-n-e-r B-o-n-e!
Some joker has been asking for my personal information.
I can assure you that we won’t send any requests for payment or personal information -
- via email, phone, texts, or house calls.
Uuh...except for this one.
Any info we send will always direct you to this website.
Sounds great!
Kids! The clown is here!
Actually, I’m here to let you know that you
need to connect your child’s Java account to your own
[Kids screaming] before you move to a Microsoft account -
You seem to have your hands full right now,
But you can find all the steps on this website.
Are you certain you're not the clown?
I...
I...I’m not sure anymore.
Hi, I see you have a Minecraft Premium account.
You are correct, young Dinnerbone.
Just a reminder that all players,
even the ones that have been with us from the start,
need to visit this website to find out how to move their account.
I’ve seen the first sun rise over the Overworld,
and I want to see the last
should that day ever come. I shall accept your quest!
Now. Give me my cape!
LLAMA!

Trivia
Among the characters present in A Fun Announcement is what appears to be a stylized Po, from the animated film series Kung-Fu Panda.
Gallery
Official artwork



			Official artwork of the modded player.



			Official artwork of Dinnerbone's security guard wearing the Migrator cape.



			Render of the crowd from A Fun Announcement.



			Banner of a scene in A Fun Announcement.



			Header of a scene in A Fun Visit.


Screenshots



			Crowd and banner at the start of A Fun Announcement.



			Dinnerbone at the beginning of A Fun Visit.



			Dinnerbone approaching castle ruins in A Fun Visit.


Thumbnails










External links
"Java Edition is moving house"     by N/A  – Minecraft.net, October 20, 2020.
Navigation