This page only covers Disney's official connection to the Minecraft franchise. 
For more general information about Disney, please refer to other websites, such as Wikipedia.



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.Note: empty sections



Disney

Type

Public

Founder(s)

Walt Disney
Roy O. Disney

Founded

October 16, 1923 (1923-10-16)

Headquarters

The Walt Disney Studios, Burbank, California, United States

Products

Films, theme park attractions, television shows, merchandising

Links

Website

{
    "title": "Disney",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "Public",
            "label": "Type"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Walt Disney article, displayed as Walt Disney)\n* (link to wikipedia:Roy O. Disney article, displayed as Roy O. Disney)",
            "label": "Founder(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "October 16, 1923<span class=\"noprint\">; 102 years ago</span><span style=\"display:none\"> (<span class=\"bday dtstart published updated\">1923-10-16</span>)</span>",
            "label": "Founded"
        },
        {
            "field": "The (link to w:Walt Disney Studios (Burbank) article, displayed as Walt Disney Studios), (link to w:Burbank, California article, displayed as Burbank, California), (link to w:United States article, displayed as United States)",
            "label": "Headquarters"
        },
        {
            "field": "Films, theme park attractions, television shows, merchandising",
            "label": "Products"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* [https://disney.com Website]",
            "label": "Links"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Disney Logo.svg"
    ]
}

The Walt Disney Company, commonly referred to as simply Disney, is an American entertainment and film company that was founded on October 16th, 1923 by Walt and Roy Disney. Some of their biggest studios include Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Marvel Studios, Lucasfilm, and more.
Disney and their studios have partnered with Mojang multiple times in Minecraft, with notable works including packs in the Legacy Console and Bedrock editions such as the Star Wars skin packs, the Disney Worlds of Adventure world, and more.

Contents

1 Featured franchises

1.1 Frozen
1.2 The Incredibles
1.3 Inside Out
1.4 Marvel
1.5 Mickey Mouse & Friends
1.6 Moana
1.7 The Simpsons
1.8 Star Wars
1.9 Toy Story
1.10 TRON

2 Add-ons

2.1 Minecraft x TRON Add-On

3 Skin packs

3.1 Frozen: Anna and Elsa
3.2 Moana Character Pack

4 Worlds

4.1 Disney Worlds of Adventure

5 Education releases

5.1 Build Your Joy

6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Renders
7.2 Official artwork

8 References
9 Navigation

Featured franchises
Frozen



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

The Incredibles



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Inside Out
Releasing in 2015, Inside Out is an animated film exploring the emotions of a young girl named Riley. Her initial emotions included Joy, Sadness, Anger, Disgust, and Fear, who throughout the film attempt to help Riley adjust to living in a new city. In 2024, the film received a sequel, which introduced several new pubertal emotions. These include Anxiety, Envy, Embarrassment, Ennui, and Nostalgia.

Marvel
Main article: Marvel


This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Mickey Mouse & Friends
"Donald Duck" and "Daisy Duck" redirect here. For other uses, see Duck.
An early rendition of Mickey's design.
First appearing in Steamboat Willie, Mickey Mouse is a cartoon character created by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks, serving as a mascot for the company. Throughout his adventures Mickey has filled many roles, including a trickster, an everyman, a sorcerer's apprentice, and a full time hero, making many friends across the years. His first and closest companion is Minnie Mouse, often serving as his love interest or partner in crime. Most frequently, Mickey is part of a trio with Donald Duck and Goofy, two characters known for their bombastic personalities. Other recurring characters include his pet Pluto, his archenemy Peg Leg Pete, and the mischievous chipmunk brothers Chip 'n' Dale.

Moana



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

The Simpsons
Main article: The Simpsons Skin PackKey art for the skin pack
The Simpsons is an animated sitcom featuring the titular family in the fictional town of Springfield. A skin pack was available on the Legacy Console Editions until May 30, 2017, containing 24 skins of various characters from the show, though due to the Better Together Update, it was added in Bedrock Edition on September 12, 2017, but was only available to players who owned it already on Xbox consoles when they migrated from Legacy Console Edition.

Star Wars
Main article: Star Wars
Toy Story
Main article: Toy Story
TRON



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Add-ons
Minecraft x TRON Add-On
Main article: Minecraft x TRON Add-On
Skin packs
Frozen: Anna and Elsa
Main article: Frozen: Anna & Elsa Skin Pack


This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Moana Character Pack
Main article: Moana Character Pack


This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Worlds
Disney Worlds of Adventure



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.

Education releases
Build Your Joy
Main article: Build Your Joy
To promote the release of Inside Out 2, a 50-minute lesson was released on Minecraft Education entitled Build Your Joy. The map features Joy and Anxiety, attempting to solve a puzzle. At an unknown time, it was delisted.

Trivia
Prior to any official collaborations, a skin of Iron Man was prominently featured in artwork for Minecraft: Skin Studio.
Gallery
Renders






















Official artwork


































































































References

 "The Simpsons Meet Minecraft Xbox One and Xbox 360 Editions Today"     by Xbox Wire Staff  – Xbox Wire, February 27, 2015.

 "New on Marketplace: Space, Sports and Dinosaurs"     by Tom Stone  – Minecraft.net, September 21, 2017.

 "Build Your Joy"   (Archive)  by Minecraft Education.

 "Minecraft Skin Studio is now available on Android!"   (Archive)  by Owen  – Mojang Studios, July 22, 2013.

Navigation