Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III

Author(s)

Mojang Studios

Platform(s)

🌐 Web browser

Written in

 Dart

Latest version

?

Release date

September 9, 2015

Size

≈ 1.8 MiB

Source available

No

Notes
 Excluding music in unarchived formats

{
    "title": "''Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III''",
    "images": [
        "DDCQ_Title_Screen.png"
    ],
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "(link to Mojang Studios article, displayed as Mojang Studios)",
            "label": "Author(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Web browser article, displayed as <big>🌐</big> Web browser)",
            "label": "Platform(s)"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to File:Dart logo.png article, displayed as x20px|Dart|link=wikipedia:Dart (programming language)) (link to wikipedia:Dart (programming language) article, displayed as Dart)",
            "label": "Written in"
        },
        {
            "field": "?",
            "label": "Latest version"
        },
        {
            "field": "September 9, 2015",
            "label": "Release date"
        },
        {
            "field": "≈ 1.8 MiB",
            "label": "Size"
        },
        {
            "field": "No",
            "label": "<span style=\"white-space:normal\">Source available</span>"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "footer": "'''Notes'''<br /><div style=\" text-align:left\">'\"`UNIQ--references-000001BD-QINU`\"'</div>"
}

Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III was a browser game created to promote the release of Pocket Edition v0.12.1 alpha, released on September 9, 2015. Done as a parody of visual novel games such as dating simulators, the game stars various anthropomorphic smartphones. It can be played within a blog post for the update, and as such was indirectly removed when the Mojang website became a redirect to Minecraft.net.

Contents

1 Gameplay
2 Summary
3 Characters
4 Quotes
5 Transcript
6 Credits
7 Trivia
8 Gallery

8.1 Screenshots
8.2 Backgrounds
8.3 Internal images

9 See also
10 References
11 External links
12 Navigation

Gameplay
The game can be played entirely using a mouse, lacking any movement or mechanics beyond clicking text boxes. The only visible button during gameplay is a soundbar, enabling the player to mute the game if desired. If the player ever receives an ending, a restart button will become visible in the top-left corner. Despite lacking an icon, this functionality actually exists throughout the rest of the game, returning the player to the first screen of exposition if clicked.

Summary



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Explain every path and context for the ending

The game is set at Device High, a premium high school for "the best-performing pieces of portable technology from across the country." The protagonist, Winsten, is the new Windows 10 PC in class, having aced an entry exam, but is anxious attending a cross-platform school. They got dropped off by their parents, feeling their internal fan spinning with nervousness, pondering if anyone plays Pocket Edition. Having some spare time before class, they decide to go one of three directions: to the rooftop, the art studio, or registration.
If Winsten heads onto the roof, they will remark about their lack of experience climbing stairs, before noticing iOS models relaxing. Finding the place a good spot to be alone, they take a deep breath, only to be interrupted by an Android device named Andy, who accuses Winsten of "hogging the air." If the player reasons with them, such as apologizing or recognizing they're an Android device, Andy will be revealed as cheeky and try to give advice.
If at any point Winsten chooses not to use cross-play or refuse to associate with a character, they will become obsolete, ending the game.

Characters

Andy
File:SkinSprite batman.pngBatman (mentioned)
Charles Burns (mentioned)
Creeper
Daniel Clowes (mentioned)
Dossie
Joakim Pirinen (mentioned)
Sugar-Conny (mentioned)
Toshie
Winsten
Winsten's Parents (mentioned)
Quotes
“Your dismissive nature escalates during your time at Device High.
You graduate successfully but become close-minded, refusing to upgrade your firmware and dismissing any technology that requires you to conquer even the shallowest of learning curves.

Soon, you find yourself outdated and alone…„ — Bad ending text crawl
Transcript



This section of the article is empty. 
You can help by expanding it.Populate with transcript as described in Talk:Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III#Transcript

Transcription missing. You can help by expanding it. See the documentation to learn how to use the template.

Credits
Aron Nieminen - programming
Mattis Grahm (credited as Bomb Boy) - graphics
Steven "surasshu" Velema (credited as surasshu) - music
Owen Jones (credited as Owen "bopogamel" Hill) - writing
Credits include special thanks to Markus Toivonen (credited as Junkboy).

Trivia
Throughout the game, several puns and inside jokes are made towards personal computer culture.
Winsten's parents moved due to "Office work," referencing Microsoft Office
In the art studio, a painting of the Windows XP default wallpaper Bliss can be seen.
Despite the title, this is not a sequel to any other game.
In the bad ending, what appears to be a Virtual Boy can be seen among the discarded products.
Doki doki (どきどき or ドキドキ) is an onomatopoeic phrase from the Japanese language representing a pair of heart beats. It is a phrase commonly used in naming popular media, such as the visual novel Doki Doki Literature Club! which was released in 2017, two years after Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III.
Gallery



This section needs expansion. 
You can help by expanding it.Instructions: Endings

Screenshots


















Backgrounds



			Device High



			Rooftop



			Art Studio



			Hallway



			Bad Ending



			Regular Ending


Internal images



			crossplay.png



			crossplay2.png



			crossplay3.png



			crossplay4.png



			crossplay5.png


See also
Info Quest II, another browser game on the Mojang blog.
References

 "DOKI DOKI: Compatibility Quest III is LIVE!"  – @Bopogamel  on X (formerly Twitter), September  9, 2015

 "Mojang’s Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III Visual Novel Introduces Minecraft: Pocket Edition Cross-Play"     by Jenni Lada  – Siliconera, September 9, 2015.

 "Doki Doki Compatibility Quest III"     – the visual novel database.

 "Cross play on Win 10 and PE! The Nether! More!"   (Archive)  by Owen  – Mojang, September 9, 2015.

 "Official site"   (Archive)  – Minecraft, May 31, 2019.

External links
https://grzesiek11.stary.pc.pl/dokidoki/ - Playable archive of the game with working sound.
vndb entry
Navigation