This article would benefit from the addition of isometric renders. 
Please remove this notice once you have added  suitable isometric renders to the article.



This article is missing information about: Scouter 
Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.



This article is a work in progress. 
Please help expand and improve it. The talk page may contain suggestions.



Dragon Ball Z

Genre

Adventure fiction
Adventure
Martial Arts
Science fantasy

Created by

Akira Toriyama

Directed by

Daisuke Nishio
Shigeyasu Yamauchi

Written by

Takao Koyama

Music by

Shunsuke Kikuchi

Production companies

Toei Animation

Distributed by

Crunchyroll, LLC

No. of episodes

291

No. of seasons

9

First installment

April 26, 1989

Final installment

January 31, 1996

{
    "title": "Dragon Ball Z",
    "rows": [
        {
            "field": "\n* Adventure fiction\n* Adventure\n* Martial Arts\n*Science fantasy",
            "label": "Genre"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Akira Toriyama article, displayed as Akira Toriyama)",
            "label": "Created by"
        },
        {
            "field": "\n* (link to wikipedia:Daisuke Nishio article, displayed as Daisuke Nishio)\n* (link to wikipedia:Shigeyasu Yamauchi article, displayed as Shigeyasu Yamauchi)",
            "label": "Directed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Takao Koyama article, displayed as Takao Koyama)",
            "label": "Written by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Shunsuke Kikuchi article, displayed as Shunsuke Kikuchi)",
            "label": "Music by"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Toei Animation article, displayed as Toei Animation)",
            "label": "Production companies"
        },
        {
            "field": "(link to wikipedia:Crunchyroll, LLC article, displayed as Crunchyroll, LLC)",
            "label": "Distributed by"
        },
        {
            "field": "291",
            "label": "No. of episodes"
        },
        {
            "field": "9",
            "label": "No. of seasons"
        },
        {
            "field": "April 26, 1989",
            "label": "First installment"
        },
        {
            "field": "January 31, 1996",
            "label": "Final installment"
        }
    ],
    "invimages": [],
    "images": [
        "Dragon_Ball_Z_logo.svg"
    ]
}

Minecraft x Dragon Ball Z is a merchandise collaboration between Minecraft and the Dragon Ball Z series, which is part of the Dragon Ball Japanese multimedia franchise.

Contents

1 Background
2 Marketplace releases

2.1 Dragon Ball Z

3 Cinematics

3.1 Minecraft x Dragon Ball Z Tease

4 Character creator
5 Videos
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Official artwork
7.2 Promotional images

8 References
9 Navigation

Background
Dragon Ball is a Japanese media franchise created in 1984 by the late Akira Toriyama. Toriyama's manga was adapted and divided into two animated series produced by Toei Animation: Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z, which together were broadcast in Japan from 1986 to 1989 and 1989 to 1996, respectively. Additionally, the studio has developed over 20 animated feature films and three television specials, as well as an animated sequel series titled Dragon Ball GT (1996–1997) and two animated midquel series titled Dragon Ball Super (2015–2018) and Dragon Ball Daima (2024–2025), and is receiving two upcoming series: a remaster titled Dragon Ball Super: Beerus and a sequel titled Dragon Ball Super: The Galactic Patrol. From 2009 to 2015, a revised version of Dragon Ball Z aired under the title Dragon Ball Z Kai, as a recut that follows the manga's story more faithfully by removing most of the animated-exclusive material, known as filler. Several companies have developed various types of merchandise based on the series, leading to a large media franchise that includes films (both animated and a live action film), collectible trading card games, action figures, collections of soundtracks, and numerous video games. All these have contributed to making Dragon Ball one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. The franchise has served as an inspiration for many other popular manga and animation, such as Naruto, Bleach, and One Piece.

Marketplace releases
Dragon Ball Z
Main article: Dragon Ball Z DLC
Developed by Cyclone, a special collaboration world was released on November 4, 2025, featuring many characters and scenarios from the franchise.

Cinematics
Minecraft x Dragon Ball Z Tease
Main article: Minecraft x Dragon Ball Z Tease
During Minecraft LIVE – September 2025, a special trailer was released announcing the collaboration. The video depicts Efe gathering the dragon balls, summoning Shenron to become a Super Saiyan.

Character creator
Main article: Character creator

Name

Image

Type

Rarity

Price

Creator

Icon

Render

Super Saiyan Hair

File:Super Saiyan Hair Render.png

Headwear

Rare

Free

Minecraft

Scouter

File:Scouter Render.png

Face Items

Cyclone Games

Goku Hair

File:Goku Hair Render.png

Headwear

 280 Minecoins

Goku's Uniform Top

File:Goku's Uniform Top Render.png

Tops

Goku's Gi Pants

File:Goku's Gi Pants Render.png

Bottoms

 160 Minecoins

Goku's Uniform Shoes

File:Goku's Uniform Shoes Render.png

Footwear

Piccolo's Mantle

File:Piccolo's Mantle Render.png

Outerwear

 280 Minecoins

Vegeta Hair

File:Vegeta Hair Render.png

Headwear

Saiyan Armor Top

File:Saiyan Armor Top Render.png

Tops

Saiyan Armor Pants

File:Saiyan Armor Pants Render.png

Bottoms

 160 Minecoins

Saiyan Armor Shoes

File:Saiyan Armor Shoes Render.png

Footwear

Videos





Trivia
Many years prior to the collaboration, Ash Davis joked about the dragon balls in a Minecraft.net article centering on a build challenge.
Much of the Dragon Ball mythology, such as Goku and Oolong, were heavily inspired by the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West. Coincidentally, this also received a prior skin pack.
Gallery
Official artwork











			Efe with the scouter character creator item






Promotional images



			A match of six characters



			Goku and Gohan in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber



			Goku confronting Great Ape Vegeta



			Super Saiyan Goku facing Kid Buu



			Shenron's appearance



			Bulma standing



			A battle between Gohan and Future Trunks against the Androids



			Vegeta fighting Cell



			Piccolo fighting Krillin



			Goku against Frieza



			Goku becoming a Super Saiyan



			Goku confronting Vegeta



			Goku being roared at by Great Ape Vegeta






References

 "Minecraft LIVE September 2025: The Recap"     by Staff  – Minecraft.net, September 19, 2025.

 "Dragon Ball Z"     by Julius Olofsson  – Minecraft.net, November 4, 2025.

 "The Monthly Build Challenge"     by Ash Davis  – Minecraft.net, July 7, 2018.

 "Journey to the West"     – Dragon Ball Wiki.

 "Dragon Ball and Journey to the West"     by Jim R. McClanahan  – Journey to the West Research, November 20, 2021.

Navigation