Dual wielding is a gameplay mechanic that allows players (and some mobs) to hold two items or blocks‌[Java Edition  only] simultaneously.

Contents

1 Usage

1.1 Combat
1.2 Tool use
1.3 Bedrock Edition
1.4 Mobs

2 History

2.1 Development
2.2 Java Edition
2.3 Bedrock Edition
2.4 Legacy Console Edition

3 Issues
4 Gallery

4.1 Development images

5 See also
6 References
7 Navigation

Usage
The off-hand slot highlighted in the inventory
See also: Tutorial:Dual wielding

Players can equip an item to the
 off-hand slot from the inventory, similarly to armor. Players can also select an item and press F by default to automatically equip it. The off-hand slot then appears beside the HUD opposite from the main hand. If the player is in first-person view, then the off-hand appears in the screen along with the held item. Whichever hand should be the main hand is configurable in the Skin Customization menu.
The off-hand can use the item it holds when there are no items with a use function in the main hand (e.g. tridents, which can be thrown), or the item held on the main hand cannot be used directly (e.g. axe while not looking at a log, wood, or an oxidized/waxed copper block). Otherwise, the main hand takes priority over the off-hand. Players also cannot break blocks or attack with the off-hand, even if nothing is held in the main hand.

Combat
A player holding a shield and an iron sword.
A player can equip a bow, crossbow, spear, or trident in their off-hand. So far, these are the only weapons that can be used in the off-hand slot or in conjunction with another weapon. This allows for higher damage output, as players no longer have to switch between weapons; however, it disables the use of a shield. Players can left-click to attack with the equipped main-hand weapon (namely a sword or mace) and right click to attack with the off-hand weapon. However, if a player collides with an entity or another player while using a Riptide-enchanted trident, damage is dealt with the item in the player's main hand.
Shields can be held in the off-hand as defense. They do not take priority over the main hand, and cannot be used if the main hand item has a use functionality (such as a bow or spear).
Arrows held in the off-hand are prioritized over other arrows in the hotbar and the inventory. Players can equip a specific arrow in their off-hand slot to fire it with a bow. If the bow is held in the off-hand, then the arrow selected on the hotbar (with the main hand) is prioritized.

Tool use
When a tool with a right-click function is held in the off-hand with another tool or weapon selected in the hotbar, right-clicking on a block that is relevant to the off-hand tool uses that off-hand tool unless the selected tool in the hotbar can also be used on the same block, in which case the hotbar tool has priority.
When a firework is in the off-hand slot and is being used with a crossbow, right-click and hold to charge and when ready, right click again to fire a firework. Fireworks can be fired from crossbows only when in the off-hand slot.

Bedrock Edition
In Bedrock Edition, only a select few items can be placed in the off-hand slot and be dual-wielded. Some are related to combat, like shields, arrows, tipped arrows, firework rockets or a totem of undying, while others are for exploring, like filled maps or explorer maps, and for aesthetic such as sparklers‌[Minecraft Education  only] and nautilus shells. Other items can be placed into the off-hand slot by using the /replaceitem command, but most items are unusable.

Mobs
Some mobs are also able to dual-wield, albeit to a more limited degree. For mobs that cannot pick up items, commands must be used in order for them to dual-wield.
The following mobs can dual-wield items:

Zombie
Husk
Drowned
Zombie Villager
Skeleton
Stray
Bogged
Parched
Wither Skeleton
Zombified Piglin
Piglin
Piglin Brute
Pillager
Vindicator
Evoker
Vex
Mobs do not actively use/consume most items or blocks in their off-hand, with a few exepctions:

Totem of Undying - used when the mob takes fatal damage.
Arrow, Spectral Arrow, Tipped Arrow, Firework Rocket - used when an applicable mob is holding a bow or crossbow in their main hand. The held item is consumed when used as ammunition.
When a mob picks up a shield, they place it in their offhand if the slot is available.
Drowned are the only mob that can naturally spawn dual-wielding items, those being a trident/fishing rod in the main hand and a nautilus shell in the off-hand.
Piglins temporarily dual-wield when bartering/inspecting a gold-related item while holding a weapon.

History
Development
10 July 2011
Jeb states that "Notch is working on dual-wielding of items" during an interview.May 28, 2015
Dinnerbone tweets a picture of dual-wielding fish.June 4, 2015
Dinnerbone tweets a short guide explaining how the dual-wielding system works.
Java Edition
Java Edition Beta1.6Test Build 3
Added maps, which require both hands to hold.Java Edition1.915w31a
 Added dual wielding.1.16pre3
Swap item in hand now works while hovering over an item in inventory.
Bedrock Edition
Pocket Edition1.1.0alpha 1.1.0.0
 Added the off-hand slot, which can be used by totems of undying and arrows only.Bedrock Edition1.2.0beta 1.2.0.2
The player can now use maps in the off-hand slot.1.4.0beta 1.2.20.1
The player can now hold sparklers in the off-hand slot.1.5.0beta 1.5.0.0
The player can now hold nautilus shells in the off-hand slot.1.8.0beta 1.8.0.10
The player can now hold firework rockets in the off-hand.1.10.0beta 1.10.0.3
The player can now hold shields in the off-hand slot.1.19.60Preview 1.19.60.24
Using /replaceitem command can now put any item into the off-hand slot, but most items can not be used as when it is in the main hand.
Legacy Console Edition
Legacy Console EditionXbox 360Xbox OnePS3PS4PS VitaWii USwitchTU53CU431.491.501.49Patch 231.0.3
Added the off-hand slot, which can be used by maps and arrows only. It currently does not use an inventory sprite.TU54CU441.521.521.52Patch 241.0.4
The player can now hold the totem of undying.   1.90
The off-hand slot now uses the  sprite in the inventory.
The player can now hold shields in the off-hand slot.
The player can now hold firework rockets in the off-hand.[is this the correct version?]
Issues
Issues relating to "Dual wield", "Dual wielding", or "Off-hand" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.

Gallery
Development images



			Dev image of incorrectly positioned hands.



			Dev image of incorrectly positioned hands.



			First image of a left hand.



			Dinnerbone dual wielding two types of fish.



			Dinnerbone dual wielding two swords.



			Dinnerbone's original guide on dual wielding. (Note: the information on this image is outdated.)



			Dinnerbone's original guide on dual wielding (cont.).



			Dinnerbone's original guide on dual wielding (cont.).


See also
Blocking
Breaking
References

 MC-84610 – Off-hand hotkey doesn't work in inventories – resolved as "Fixed".

Navigation